[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3823 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3823

To provide for direct hire authority for positions in the Pipeline and 
   Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 23, 2015

  Mr. Gene Green of Texas (for himself, Mr. Olson, Ms. Hahn, and Mr. 
    Babin) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
Committees on Energy and Commerce and Oversight and Government Reform, 
for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of 
                        the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for direct hire authority for positions in the Pipeline and 
   Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR PIPELINE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS 
              SAFETY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Authority.--The Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration may appoint qualified candidates to 
positions described in subsection (b) without regard to sections 3309 
through 3319 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Applicability.--The authority under subsection (a) applies with 
respect to candidates for any position that would likely allow 
increased activities relating to pipeline safety, as determined by the 
Administrator.
    (c) Employee Defined.--As used in this section, the term 
``employee'' has the meaning given such term in section 2105 of title 
5, United States Code.
    (d) Termination.--The authority to make appointments under this 
section shall not be available after December 31, 2017.

SEC. 2. REPORT.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
and annually thereafter through calendar year 2017, the Administrator 
of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration shall 
submit to Congress a report on efforts of the Administration to hire 
women, minorities, and veterans as inspectors since January 1, 2012.
                                 <all>
