[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6318 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6318

To amend title 5, United States Code, to provide an increase in premium 
pay for certain Federal employees performing protective services during 
   any year in which a presidential election is held, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 15, 2016

 Mr. Cummings (for himself, Mr. Clay, Ms. Plaskett, Mr. Connolly, Mr. 
      Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
  Pennsylvania, Mr. Cooper, Mr. DeSaulnier, Ms. Norton, Ms. Kelly of 
 Illinois, Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney 
 of New York, Mr. Welch, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, and 
Ms. Duckworth) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
              Committee on Oversight and Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 5, United States Code, to provide an increase in premium 
pay for certain Federal employees performing protective services during 
   any year in which a presidential election is held, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fair Pay for Presidential Protection 
Act''.

SEC. 2. PREMIUM PAY EXCEPTION FOR WORK AUTHORIZED UNDER SECTION 3056(A) 
              OF TITLE 18.

    (a) In General.--Section 5547 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in 
any calendar year in which a presidential election is held--
            ``(A) subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply to an 
        employee who performs work authorized by section 3056(a) of 
        title 18; and
            ``(B) such an employee may be paid premium pay under the 
        provisions of law referred to in subsection (a) to the extent 
        that the payment of such pay does not cause--
                    ``(i) the aggregate total of basic pay and such 
                premium pay for any pay period for such employee to 
                exceed the biweekly equivalent of the annual salary 
                rate established for level I of the Executive Schedule 
                under section 5312 in effect at the end of the calendar 
                year; or
                    ``(ii) the total basic pay and such premium pay in 
                any calendar year for such employee to exceed the 
                annual salary rate established for such level in effect 
                at the end of the calendar year.
    ``(2) The payment of additional premium pay pursuant to paragraph 
(1) shall not be considered or creditable as basic pay for purposes of 
retirement or any other purpose and shall not be used in computing 
payment for accumulated and accrued annual leave under section 5551 or 
5552.
    ``(3) In applying section 5307, any premium pay earned in a pay 
period subject to the limit in paragraph (1)(B)(i) shall not be counted 
as part of an employee's aggregate compensation for the given calendar 
year.
    ``(4) The Director of the Secret Service may act as the head of an 
agency in applying the annual limitation on premium pay established 
under subsection (b)(3) in calendar years in which a presidential 
election is not held.''.
    (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall begin 
to apply in 2016.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 118 of the Treasury and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-554) is repealed.
                                 <all>
