[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1670 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1670

     To amend the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 to authorize 
appropriations to provide assistance for domestic and foreign programs 
  and centers for the treatment of victims of torture, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 24, 2015

 Ms. Klobuchar (for herself and Mr. Franken) introduced the following 
  bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign 
                               Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To amend the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 to authorize 
appropriations to provide assistance for domestic and foreign programs 
  and centers for the treatment of victims of torture, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Torture Victims Relief 
Reauthorization Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR DOMESTIC TREATMENT CENTERS 
              FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE.

    Section 5(b)(1) of the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 (22 
U.S.C. 2152 note) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Authorization of appropriations.--Of the amounts 
        authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Health and 
        Human Services for fiscal years 2016 and 2017, there are 
        authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (a) 
        $25,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2016 and 2017.''.

SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR FOREIGN TREATMENT CENTERS 
              FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE.

    Section 4(b)(1) of the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 (22 
U.S.C. 2152 note) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Authorization of appropriations.--Of the amounts 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 2016 and 2017 
        pursuant to chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act 
        of 1961, there are authorized to be appropriated to the 
        President to carry out section 130 of such Act $12,000,000 for 
        each of the fiscal years 2016 and 2017.''.

SEC. 4. SPECIALIZED TRAINING FOR FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS.

    Section 7 of the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 2152 
note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by inserting ``through the Foreign Service Institute'' 
        after ``foreign service officers''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Report.--The Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
of the House of Representatives an annual report on the implementation 
of subsection (a) for the preceding year, including a description of 
training on victims of torture for foreign service officers and the 
number of foreign service officers trained.''.

SEC. 5. REPORT ON VICTIMS OF TORTURE WHO ENTER THE UNITED STATES.

    The Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
House of Representatives an annual report on the percentage and number 
of identified victims of torture who are approved to enter the United 
States as refugees and their initial placement in the United States.

SEC. 6. GUIDANCE AND SUPPORT FOR INDIGENOUS FOREIGN TREATMENT CENTERS 
              AND PROGRAMS FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development shall provide guidance and support for 
indigenous foreign treatment centers and programs for victims of 
torture in order to increase the capacity of such centers and programs 
and to train other local health care providers, including hospitals, 
clinics and other health treatment facilities.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Of the amounts authorized to 
be appropriated for fiscal years 2016 and 2017 to carry out section 130 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, there are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Administrator such sums as may be necessary to 
carry out subsection (a) for each of the fiscal years 2016 and 2017.
                                 <all>
