[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6066 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6066

  To enforce Federal cybersecurity responsibility and accountability.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 19, 2016

    Mr. Abraham (for himself and Mr. Smith of Texas) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on Science, Space, 
   and Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To enforce Federal cybersecurity responsibility and accountability.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cybersecurity Responsibility and 
Accountability Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 3552 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs 
        (7) and (8), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(6) The term `major cybersecurity incident' has the 
        meaning given the term `major incident' in Office of Management 
        and Budget Memorandum M-16-03, dated October 30, 2015, or any 
        successor document.''.

SEC. 3. AUTHORITY AND FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR OF NIST.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 3553 of title 44, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c) through (j) as 
        subsections (d) through (k), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology.--The Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology shall further develop and update as necessary the standards 
and guidelines under section 20 of the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3) to fulfill the additional 
objectives and requirements of the Cybersecurity Responsibility and 
Accountability Act of 2016. Further, the Director of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology shall--
            ``(1) provide to the Director of the Office of Management 
        and Budget a framework and process for agency implementation of 
        such standards and guidelines;
            ``(2) provide support to agency heads for the 
        implementation of such standards and guidelines and their 
        application to information security policies and principles, as 
        well as with the development of information security training 
        and certification for agency heads;
            ``(3) conduct cybersecurity research--
                    ``(A) to identify and address prevalent information 
                security challenges, concerns, and knowledge gaps 
                identified by agencies, including those manifested in 
                any of the reports, evaluations, assessments, and plans 
                described in this subchapter that may undermine 
                agencies' information security policies and practices;
                    ``(B) to assess the sufficiency of the current 
                statutory requirements of the Federal Information 
                Security Management Act of 2002 and the Federal 
                Information Security Modernization Act of 2014, and 
                their effectiveness in requiring agencies to implement 
                standards and guidelines developed under section 20 of 
                the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act 
                (15 U.S.C. 278g-3) and authorized by the Cybersecurity 
                Responsibility and Accountability Act of 2016 regarding 
                information security policies and practices; and
                    ``(C) that shall require the Director of the Office 
                of Management and Budget, the Secretary of Homeland 
                Security, and the heads of other Federal agencies to 
                provide the Director of the National Institute of 
                Standards and Technology any resources, including 
                reports, evaluations, assessments, and plans, that may 
                be required for such research; and
            ``(4) develop, publish, and update as necessary information 
        security standards and guidelines for national security systems 
        based on established standards and guidelines for information 
        systems.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 
44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the item relating to section 3553 in the table of 
        sections, by striking ``and the Secretary'' and inserting ``, 
        the Secretary, and the Director of the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology'';
            (2) in the section heading for section 3553, by striking 
        ``and the Secretary'' and inserting ``, the Secretary, and the 
        Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology'';
            (3) in section 3553(e), as so redesignated by subsection 
        (a)(1) of this section, by striking ``subsection (c)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (d)'';
            (4) in section 3553(i)(1)(B), as so redesignated by 
        subsection (a)(1) of this section--
                    (A) by striking ``subsection (d)'' and inserting 
                ``subsection (e)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``subsection (e)'' and inserting 
                ``subsection (f)'';
            (5) in section 3554(a)(1)(B)(v), by striking ``section 
        3553(h)'' and inserting ``section 3553(i)''; and
            (6) in section 3555(g)(1), by striking ``section 3553(c)'' 
        and inserting ``section 3553(d)''.

SEC. 4. AGENCY HEADS.

    Section 2(d) of the Federal Information Security Modernization Act 
of 2014 (44 U.S.C. 3553 note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in the matter before clause (i), by 
                        inserting ``head'' after ``affected agency''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in clause (ii)(IV), by inserting 
                        ``head'' after ``when the agency''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by inserting ``head of the'' after 
                        ``notice by the''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``agency discovers'' and 
                        inserting ``agency head discovers'';
            (2) in paragraph (3)(A)(ii), by striking ``section 
        3553(c)'' and inserting ``section 3553(d)''; and
            (3) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``the National Institute 
        of Standards and Technology and'' after ``such notice to''.

SEC. 5. FEDERAL AGENCY HEAD RESPONSIBILITIES.

    Section 3554 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3)(A)--
                    (A) by striking ``designating a senior agency 
                information security officer'' and inserting 
                ``collaborating with the agency head to designate a 
                Chief Information Security Officer'';
                    (B) by redesignating clauses (i) through (iv) as 
                clauses (ii) through (v), respectively;
                    (C) by inserting before clause (ii), as so 
                redesignated, the following new clause:
                            ``(i) have the job description and 
                        responsibilities that shall be provided in 
                        guidance issued by the Director, developed in 
                        consultation with the Director of the National 
                        Institute of Standards and Technology and the 
                        Secretary, within 6 months after the date of 
                        enactment of the Cybersecurity Responsibility 
                        and Accountability Act of 2016;'';
                    (D) in clause (iv), as so redesignated, by striking 
                ``and'' at the end;
                    (E) in clause (v), as so redesignated, by inserting 
                ``and'' after the semicolon at the end; and
                    (F) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(vi) be designated without increasing the 
                        number of full-time equivalent employee 
                        positions at the agency;'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (8) as 
                paragraphs (6) through (9), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(5) mandatory annual information security training and 
        certification designed specifically for the agency head, 
        developed and updated as necessary by the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology, the purpose of which shall be to 
        ensure that the agency head has an understanding of Federal 
        cybersecurity policy, including an understanding of--
                    ``(A) the information and information systems that 
                support the operations and assets of the agency, using 
                nontechnical terms as much as possible;
                    ``(B) the potential impact of common types of 
                cyber-attacks and data breaches on the agency's 
                operations and assets;
                    ``(C) how cyber-attacks and data breaches occur;
                    ``(D) steps the agency head and agency employees 
                should take to protect their information and 
                information systems, including not using private 
                messaging system software or private e-mail servers for 
                official communications; and
                    ``(E) the annual reporting requirements required of 
                the agency head under subsection (c), including the 
                certifications required under subsection 
                (c)(1)(A)(iv);'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(A)--
                            (i) by striking ``Each agency'' and 
                        inserting ``The head of each agency'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``the Director of the 
                        National Institute of Standards and 
                        Technology,'' after ``the Director, the 
                        Secretary,'';
                            (iii) by inserting ``, Space, and 
                        Technology'' after ``the Committee on 
                        Science'';
                            (iv) by striking ``and'' at the end of 
                        clause (iii)(II);
                            (v) by redesignating clause (iv) as clause 
                        (v); and
                            (vi) by inserting after clause (iii) the 
                        following new clause:
                            ``(iv) specific written certification by 
                        the agency head that--
                                    ``(I) certifies that information 
                                security standards developed under 
                                section 20 of the National Institute of 
                                Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 
                                278g-3) are being met by the agency;
                                    ``(II) identifies the security 
                                controls in place at the agency and how 
                                they each meet the relevant information 
                                security standard;
                                    ``(III) may be based on or informed 
                                by the assessment described in section 
                                3553(d)(4); and
                                    ``(IV) for any information security 
                                standard that the agency does not meet, 
                                provides the reasons therefor and 
                                includes documentation of the 
                                Director's certification of the agency 
                                not meeting the standard; and''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Each agency'' 
                and inserting ``The head of each agency'';
            (4) in subsection (d), by striking ``each agency'' and 
        inserting ``the head of each agency'';
            (5) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f);
            (6) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(e) Plans for Implementation of Recommendations.--
            ``(1) Comptroller general recommendations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In addition to the requirements 
                of subsections (c) and (d), each agency head shall, not 
                later than 6 months after the date of enactment of the 
                Cybersecurity Responsibility and Accountability Act of 
                2016, develop a plan, in consultation with the 
                Comptroller General, to implement all of the 
                Comptroller General's recommendations regarding 
                information security controls relevant to that agency.
                    ``(B) Plan.--The plan required under subparagraph 
                (A)--
                            ``(i) shall be submitted to the agencies 
                        and committees described in subsection 
                        (c)(1)(A);
                            ``(ii) shall include a schedule for 
                        implementation of the Comptroller General's 
                        recommendations, including a completion 
                        deadline;
                            ``(iii) shall be updated annually, and such 
                        annual updates shall be included in the annual 
                        report described in subsection (c)(1)(A); and
                            ``(iv) may, as appropriate, be based on or 
                        informed by recommendations included in the 
                        evaluation and report described in section 
                        3555(h).
                    ``(C) If no recommendations.--If the Comptroller 
                General does not have any relevant recommendations for 
                an agency head to implement relative to information 
                security controls, then the agency head shall 
                accordingly notify the agencies and committees 
                described in subsection (c)(1)(A).
                    ``(D) Reasons for failure to implement.--If there 
                are any Comptroller General recommendations that an 
                agency head does not implement, the agency head shall 
                provide the reasons for that failure to the Director 
                for the Director's approval. For each unimplemented 
                recommendation, the plan shall include either the 
                Director's approval or a certification by the Director 
                of the agency head's failure to implement such 
                recommendation.
            ``(2) Inspector general recommendations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In addition to the requirements 
                of subsections (c) and (d), each agency head shall, not 
                later than 6 months after the date of enactment of the 
                Cybersecurity Responsibility and Accountability Act of 
                2016, develop a plan, in consultation with its 
                Inspector General, to implement all of the Inspector 
                General's recommendations regarding the agency's 
                information security program.
                    ``(B) Plan.--The plan required under subparagraph 
                (A)--
                            ``(i) shall be submitted to the agencies 
                        and committees described in subsection 
                        (c)(1)(A);
                            ``(ii) shall include a schedule for 
                        implementation of the Inspector General's 
                        recommendations, including a completion 
                        deadline;
                            ``(iii) shall be updated annually, and such 
                        annual updates shall be included in the annual 
                        report described in subsection (c)(1)(A); and
                            ``(iv) may, as appropriate, be based on or 
                        informed by recommendations included in--
                                    ``(I) the evaluation described in 
                                section 3555(b)(1); or
                                    ``(II) if the agency does not have 
                                an Inspector General, the evaluation 
                                described in section 3555(b)(2).
                    ``(C) If no recommendations.--If the Inspector 
                General does not have any relevant information security 
                control recommendations for the agency head to 
                implement, then the agency head shall accordingly 
                notify the agencies and committees described in 
                subsection (c)(1)(A).
                    ``(D) Reasons for failure to implement.--If there 
                are any Inspector General recommendations that the 
                agency head does not implement, the agency head shall 
                provide the reasons for that failure to the Director 
                for the Director's approval. For each unimplemented 
                recommendation, the plan shall include either the 
                Director's approval or a certification by the Director 
                of the agency head's failure to implement such 
                recommendation.''; and
            (7) in subsection (f), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``Each agency'' and inserting ``The head of each agency''.

SEC. 6. ANNUAL INDEPENDENT EVALUATION.

    Section 3555 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ``head'' after 
        ``each agency'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``and evaluations 
        required by section 3555a'' after ``required by this section'';
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``that portion of the 
        evaluation required by this section'' and inserting ``the 
        portions of evaluations required by this section or section 
        3555a'';
            (4) in subsection (e)(2), by inserting ``or section 3555a'' 
        after ``required under this section'';
            (5) in subsection (f), by striking ``Agencies'' and 
        inserting ``In carrying out this section and section 3555a, 
        agencies'';
            (6) in subsection (g)(3), by inserting ``under this section 
        or section 3555a'' after ``Evaluations'';
            (7) in subsection (i)--
                    (A) by striking ``the head of an agency'' and 
                inserting ``an agency head'';
                    (B) by striking ``head of an agency'' and inserting 
                ``agency head''; and
                    (C) by inserting ``or section 3555a'' after ``under 
                this section''; and
            (8) in subsection (j), by inserting ``the Director of the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology,'' after ``with 
        the Secretary,''.

SEC. 7. MAJOR CYBERSECURITY INCIDENT INDEPENDENT EVALUATIONS.

    (a) Amendment.--Subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 44, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 3555 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 3555a. Major cybersecurity incident independent evaluations
    ``(a) Requirement.--Each time an agency experiences a major 
cybersecurity incident, the agency head shall have performed an 
independent evaluation of such incident.
    ``(b) Inclusions.--An evaluation of a major cybersecurity incident 
under this section shall be transmitted by the agency head to the 
agencies and committees described in section 3554(c)(1)(A), and shall 
include--
            ``(1) a description of each major cybersecurity incident 
        including--
                    ``(A) threats and threat actors, vulnerabilities, 
                and impacts, including whether the incident involved 
                information that is classified, controlled unclassified 
                information proprietary, controlled unclassified 
                information privacy, or controlled unclassified 
                information other, as these terms are defined in Office 
                of Management and Budget Memorandum M-16-03, dated 
                October 30, 2015, or any successor document;
                    ``(B) risk assessments conducted on the system 
                before the incident;
                    ``(C) the status of compliance of the affected 
                information system with information security 
                requirements at the time of the incident, including--
                            ``(i) information security control 
                        recommendations made by the agency's Inspector 
                        General that are part of the plan described in 
                        section 3554(e)(2);
                            ``(ii) information security control 
                        recommendations made by the Comptroller General 
                        that are part of the plan described in section 
                        3554(e)(1); and
                            ``(iii) National Institute of Standards and 
                        Technology information security standards that 
                        are part of the agency head's certification 
                        described in section 3554(c)(1)(A)(iv);
                    ``(D) the detection, response, and remediation 
                actions the agency has completed; and
                    ``(E) recommendations for research, process, and 
                policy actions the agency should consider taking in 
                response to the incident and to help prevent future 
                incidents of a similar nature; and
            ``(2) for each major cybersecurity incident involving a 
        breach of personally identifiable information--
                    ``(A) the number of individuals whose information 
                was affected by the incident and a description of the 
                information that was breached or exposed;
                    ``(B) an assessment of the risk of harm to affected 
                individuals; and
                    ``(C) details of whether and when the agency 
                provided notice to affected individuals about the data 
                breach, including what protections were offered by the 
                breached agency.
    ``(c) Enforcement.--
            ``(1) In general.--If an evaluation of a major 
        cybersecurity incident described in subsection (a) determines 
        that the major cybersecurity incident occurred in part or in 
        whole because the agency head had failed to comply sufficiently 
        with the information security requirements, recommendations, or 
        standards described in subsection (b)(1)(C), the Director 
        shall, within 60 days of receiving the evaluation, take action 
        under paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Enforcement actions.--Enforcement actions the 
        Director may take under this subsection are--
                    ``(A) actions described in section 11303(b)(5) of 
                title 40, United States Code; and
                    ``(B) either--
                            ``(i) recommending to the President the 
                        removal or demotion of the agency head; or
                            ``(ii) action to ensure the agency head 
                        does not receive any cash or pay awards or 
                        bonuses for a period of 1 year after submission 
                        of the explanation required under paragraph 
                        (3).
            ``(3) Explanation.--The Director shall provide a detailed 
        explanation for enforcement actions taken under paragraph (2), 
        or for a decision not to act, to the committees described in 
        section 3554(c)(1)(A).''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections for such 
subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
3555 the following new item:

``3555a. Major cybersecurity incident independent evaluations.''.
                                 <all>
