[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6268 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6268

 To direct the Attorney General to establish a definition of the term 
                   ``gang'', and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 28, 2016

 Mr. McNerney introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Attorney General to establish a definition of the term 
                   ``gang'', and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Reducing Gangs and Recidivism Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    The Director shall provide technical assistance to States in 
implementing best practices for States receiving grants under a program 
of the Department of Justice, a purpose of which is to combat gangs (as 
such term is defined pursuant to section 3).

SEC. 3. DEFINITION OF GANG.

    The Attorney General, in consultation with the heads of appropriate 
Federal, State, and local agencies, shall establish a definition of the 
term ``gang'', which shall be used by all such Federal agencies for the 
purpose of any report produced by such agencies related to gangs.

SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF METRICS TO MEASURE DOJ EFFECTIVENESS IN 
              COMBATING GANGS.

    (a) Establishment.--The Attorney General shall establish metrics 
and standards to measure the effectiveness of the programs of the 
Department of Justice in combating gangs (as such term is defined 
pursuant to section 3).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the Attorney General shall 
submit to Congress a report describing the effectiveness of the 
programs referred to in subsection (a) using the metrics developed 
pursuant to that subsection.

SEC. 5. BJS REPORT ON RECIDIVISM.

    Part C of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3731 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 305. REPORT ON RECIDIVISM.

    ``Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the Director shall submit to 
Congress a report on recidivism.''.
                                 <all>
