[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3363 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3363

Making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 20, 2016

 Mr. Graham (for himself, Ms. Ayotte, Mr. Kirk, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Rubio, 
Mr. Cruz, and Mr. McCain) introduced the following bill; which was read 
         twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL

                    CHAPTER 1--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                              PROCUREMENT

                       procurement, defense-wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$700,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, which shall 
be for the Secretary of Defense to provide to the Government of Israel 
for the procurement of missile defense systems to address security 
threats from Iran, subject to previously established transfer 
procedures and in accordance with United States-Israeli production 
agreements:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

        research, development, test and evaluation, defense-wide

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $50,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017, which shall be for the Secretary of Defense to 
provide to the Government of Israel for the procurement of missile 
defense systems to address security threats from Iran, subject to 
previously established transfer procedures and in accordance with 
United States-Israeli production agreements:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             CHAPTER 2--FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING PROGRAM

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                  FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing 
Program'', $750,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, 
for assistance for Israel to address security threats from Iran, which 
shall be disbursed within 30 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               CHAPTER 3--GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 101.  Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be 
available only if the President subsequently so designates all such 
amounts and transmits such designations to the Congress.

                                TITLE II

                   IRAN SANCTIONS ACT REAUTHORIZATION

    Section 13(b) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2016'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2031''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for the Defense of Israel, 2016''.
                                 <all>
