[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3198 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3198

  To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of 
              adult day health care services for veterans.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 13, 2016

 Mr. Hatch (for himself and Ms. Hirono) introduced the following bill; 
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the provision of 
              adult day health care services for veterans.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``State Veterans Home Adult Day Health 
Care Improvement Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. PROVISION OF CERTAIN ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE SERVICES FOR 
              VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1745 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) The Secretary shall enter into a contract or agreement 
with each State home for payment by the Secretary for medical 
supervision model adult day health care provided to a veteran described 
in subsection (a)(1) on whose behalf the State home is not in receipt 
of payment for nursing home care from the Secretary.
    ``(2) Payment under each contract or agreement between the 
Secretary and a State home under paragraph (1) for each veteran who 
receives medical supervision model adult day health care under such 
contract or agreement shall be made at a rate that is equal to 65 
percent of the payment that the Secretary would make under subsection 
(a)(2) to the State home for nursing home care provided to the veteran.
    ``(3) Payment by the Secretary under paragraph (1) to a State home 
for medical supervision model adult day health care provided to a 
veteran described in that paragraph constitutes payment in full to the 
State home for such care furnished to that veteran.
    ``(4) In this subsection, the term `medical supervision model adult 
day health care' means adult day health care that includes the 
coordination of physician services, dental services, the administration 
of drugs, and such other requirements as determined appropriate by the 
Secretary.''; and
            (2) in the section heading, by inserting ``, adult day 
        health care,'' after ``home care''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 17 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 1745 and inserting the following new item:

``1745. Nursing home care, adult day health care, and medications for 
                            veterans with service-connected 
                            disabilities.''.
                                 <all>
