[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2976 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2976

To replace references to ``wives'' and ``husbands'' in Federal law with 
           references to ``spouses'', and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              July 8, 2015

Mrs. Capps (for herself, Mr. Beyer, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Edwards, Mr. Farr, 
 Mr. Hinojosa, Ms. Jackson Lee, Ms. Lee, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. McCollum, 
Mr. Murphy of Florida, Ms. Norton, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Larsen 
 of Washington, Mr. Levin, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. 
   Tsongas, Mr. Bera, Mr. Grayson, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. 
Pingree, Mr. Engel, and Mr. Honda) introduced the following bill; which 
             was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To replace references to ``wives'' and ``husbands'' in Federal law with 
           references to ``spouses'', and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Amend the Code for Marriage Equality 
Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Act of August 16, 1941.--Section 2(b) of the Act of August 16, 
1941, entitled ``An Act to provide compensation for disability or death 
to persons employed at military, air, and naval bases outside the 
United States.'' (42 U.S.C. 1652(b)) is amended by striking ``wife'' 
each place such term appears and inserting ``spouse''.
    (b) Act of August 4, 1955.--Section 43(a) of the Act of August 4, 
1955, entitled ``An Act to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to 
release on behalf of the United States conditions in two deeds 
conveying certain submarginal lands to Clemson Agricultural College of 
South Carolina so as to permit such college, subject to certain 
conditions, to sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of such lands.'' (42 
U.S.C. 2333(a)) is amended by striking ``husband and wife'' and 
inserting ``married couple''.
    (c) Act of December 2, 1942.--Section 101(c) of the Act of December 
2, 1942, entitled ``An Act to provide compensation for the injury, 
disability, death, or enemy detention of employees of contractors with 
the United States, and for other purposes.'' (42 U.S.C. 1701(c)) is 
amended by striking ``wife or husband'' each place such term appears 
and inserting ``spouse''.
    (d) Act of February 28, 1891.--Section 5 of the Act of February 28, 
1891 (25 U.S.C. 371), is amended by striking ``husband and wife'' and 
inserting ``a married couple''.
    (e) Act of September 2, 1960.--The Act of September 2, 1960, 
entitled ``An Act to provide for continued delivery of water under the 
Federal reclamation laws to lands held by husband and wife upon the 
death of either'' (43 U.S.C. 423h) is amended--
            (1) in the title, by striking ``husband and wife upon the 
        death of either'' and inserting ``a married couple upon the 
        death of either spouse''; and
            (2) by striking ``husband or wife'' and inserting ``married 
        person''.
    (f) Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949.--The Central 
Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in the heading of section 16(c), by striking ``Wives or 
        Husbands'' and inserting ``Spouses''; and
            (2) in section 19(b)(4), by striking ``widow or widower, 
        former spouse, and/or a child or children as defined in section 
        204 and section 232 of the Central Intelligence Agency 
        Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees'' and inserting 
        ``surviving spouse, former spouse, or child as defined in 
        section 102 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement 
        Act''.
    (g) Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act.--The Central 
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 221(d)(5), by striking ``former wife or 
        husband of'' and inserting ``person who has been, but is no 
        longer, married to'';
            (2) in section 232(c)(3), by striking ``former wife or 
        husband of'' and inserting ``person who has been, but is no 
        longer, married to'';
            (3) in section 241--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by inserting after 
                        ``former spouse'' the following: ``(as defined 
                        under section 102)'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) in the heading, by striking 
                                ``wife or husband'' and inserting 
                                ``spouse other than as defined under 
                                section 102''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``former wife or 
                                husband of the former participant'' and 
                                inserting ``person who has been, but is 
                                no longer, married to the former 
                                participant, but who is not a former 
                                spouse as defined under suction 102''; 
                                and
                            (iii) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking 
                        ``former wife or husband'' and inserting 
                        ``person'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``surviving 
                wife or husband of such participant'' and inserting 
                ``person who was married to such participant at the 
                participant's death''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (d)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``surviving former spouse 
                        or surviving former wife or husband of such 
                        participant'' and inserting ``person''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``to such former spouse or 
                        former wife or husband'' and inserting ``under 
                        such paragraph''; and
            (4) in section 304(d)(2), by striking ``widow or widower'' 
        each place such term appears and inserting ``surviving 
        spouse''.
    (h) Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act 
of 2000.--The Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation 
Program Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7384 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 3628(e)(3)(A), by striking ``wife or husband 
        of that individual'' and inserting ``person''; and
            (2) in section 3630(e)(3)(A), by striking ``wife or husband 
        of that individual'' and inserting ``person''.
    (i) Ethics in Government Act of 1978.--Section 109(16) of the 
Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 109(16)) is amended by 
striking ``husband, wife'' and inserting ``spouse''.
    (j) Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.--Section 102(f) of the 
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. 2612(f)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``husband and wife'' and 
        inserting ``married couple''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``that husband 
                and wife'' and inserting ``such spouses''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``husband and 
                wife'' and inserting ``married couple''.
    (k) Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971.--Section 313(c)(3)(B) of 
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30114(c)(3)(B)) is 
amended by striking ``husband, wife'' and inserting ``spouse''.
    (l) Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977.--The Federal Mine 
Safety and Health Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 402--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``wife who is a member of 
                        the same household of the miner'' and inserting 
                        ``spouse who is a member of the same household 
                        as the miner'';
                            (ii) by striking ``miner for her support'' 
                        and inserting ``miner for his or her support'';
                            (iii) by striking ``whose husband is a 
                        miner who has been ordered by a court to 
                        contribute to her support'' and inserting ``for 
                        whose support the miner has been ordered by a 
                        court to contribute'';
                            (iv) by striking ``216(b) (1) or (2)'' and 
                        inserting ``216(b)(1) or (2)'';
                            (v) by striking ``status as the `wife' of a 
                        miner'' and inserting ``status as the `spouse' 
                        of a miner'';
                            (vi) by striking ```wife' also includes a 
                        `divorced wife' as defined in section 
                        216(d)(1)'' and inserting ```spouse' also 
                        includes a `divorced spouse' as defined in 
                        section 216(d)(9)'';
                            (vii) by striking ``one-half of her 
                        support'' and inserting ``half of his or her 
                        support''; and
                            (viii) by inserting ``his or'' before ``her 
                        support from such miner''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) by striking ``widow includes the wife'' 
                        and inserting ``surviving spouse includes the 
                        spouse'';
                            (ii) by striking ``individual's status as 
                        the `widow''' and inserting ``individual's 
                        status as the `surviving spouse''';
                            (iii) by striking ``surviving divorced 
                        wife'' and inserting ``surviving divorced 
                        spouse''; and
                            (iv) by inserting ``his or'' before ``her'' 
                        each place such term appears;
            (2) in section 411(c)(4)--
                    (A) by striking ``widow's,'' and inserting 
                ``surviving spouse's,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``wife's'' and inserting 
                ``spouse's''; and
            (3) in section 413(b)--
                    (A) by striking ``wife's'' and inserting 
                ``surviving spouse's''; and
                    (B) by striking ``widow,'' and inserting 
                ``surviving spouse,''.
    (m) Foreign Service Act of 1980.--The Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in the item relating to the first section 830 in the 
        table of contents, by striking ``wives and husbands'' and 
        inserting ``spouses'';
            (2) in section 804--
                    (A) in paragraph (6), by striking ``former wife or 
                husband of a participant or former participant'' and 
                inserting ``person''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (13), by striking ``surviving wife 
                or husband of a participant or annuitant who was 
                married to the'' and inserting ``person who was married 
                to a'';
            (3) in section 815(f)(2), by striking ``wife or husband'' 
        and inserting ``spouse''; and
            (4) in the first section 830 (relating to qualified former 
        wives and husbands)--
                    (A) in the heading of such section, by striking 
                ``former wives and husbands'' and inserting 
                ``spouses'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``qualified 
                former wife or husband'' and inserting ``qualified 
                former spouse''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c), by striking ``former wife or 
                husband'' each place such term occurs and inserting 
                ``former spouse''.
    (n) Immigration and Nationality Act.--The Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 101(a)(35) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(35))--
                    (A) by striking ``, `wife', or `husband'''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, wife, or husband'';
            (2) in section 202(b) (8 U.S.C. 1152(b)), by striking 
        ``husband and wife'' and inserting ``spouses'';
            (3) in section 278 (8 U.S.C. 1328), by striking ``a husband 
        or wife shall be admissible and competent evidence against each 
        other'' and inserting ``an individual shall be admissible and 
        competent evidence against such individual's spouse''; and
            (4) in section 283 (8 U.S.C. 1353), by striking ``wives'' 
        and inserting ``spouses''.
    (o) Indian Land Consolidation Act.--Section 207(j)(3)(A)(ii) of the 
Indian Land Consolidation Act (25 U.S.C. 2206) is amended by striking 
``husband and wife'' and inserting ``the participants as spouses''.
    (p) Internal Revenue Code.--The Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter following section 21(d)(2)(B), by 
        striking ``husband and wife'' and inserting ``married couple'';
            (2) in section 22(e)(1), by striking ``husband and wife'' 
        and inserting ``married couple'';
            (3) in section 38(c)(6)(A), by striking ``husband or wife'' 
        and inserting ``spouse'';
            (4) in section 42(j)(5)(C)--
                    (A) in the heading of clause (i), by striking 
                ``Husband and wife'' and inserting ``Married couple''; 
                and
                    (B) in clause (i), by striking ``a husband and 
                wife'' and inserting ``a married couple'';
            (5) in section 62(b)(3)(A), by striking ``husband and 
        wife'' and inserting ``married couple'';
            (6) in section 121--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``husband and 
                wife'' and inserting ``married couple''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``husband and 
                wife make'' and inserting ``married couple makes'';
            (7) in section 165(h)(4)(B), by striking ``husband and 
        wife'' and inserting ``married couple'';
            (8) in section 179(b)(4), by striking ``husband and wife'' 
        and inserting ``married couple'';
            (9) in section 213(d)(8), by striking ``husband and wife'' 
        and inserting ``a married couple'';
            (10) in section 219(g)(4), by striking ``A husband and 
        wife'' and inserting ``Spouses'';
            (11) in section 274(b)(2)(B), by striking ``husband and 
        wife'' and inserting ``married couple'';
            (12) in the matter following section 643(f)(2), by striking 
        ``husband and wife'' and inserting ``married couple'';
            (13) in section 682--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking ``wife'' 
                        and inserting ``recipient'';
                            (ii) by striking ``gross income of a wife'' 
                        and inserting ``gross income of an 
                        individual'';
                            (iii) by striking ``separated from her 
                        husband'' and inserting ``separated from his or 
                        her spouse'';
                            (iv) by striking ``such wife is entitled to 
                        receive'' and inserting ``such person is 
                        entitled to receive'';
                            (v) by striking ``gross income of her 
                        husband'' and inserting ``gross income of his 
                        or her spouse'';
                            (vi) by striking ``gross income of such 
                        husband'' and inserting ``gross income of such 
                        spouse''; and
                            (vii) by striking ``minor children of such 
                        husband'' and inserting ``minor children of 
                        such spouse''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking ``Wife'' 
                        and inserting ``Recipient'';
                            (ii) by striking ``a wife to whom 
                        subsection (a) applies'' and inserting ``an 
                        individual who receives income from a trust to 
                        which subsection (a) applies''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``such wife'' and 
                        inserting ``such individual'';
            (14) in section 761(f), by striking ``husband and wife'' 
        each place such term appears and inserting ``married couple'';
            (15) in section 911--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2)(C)--
                            (i) by striking ``husband or wife'' and 
                        inserting ``member of a married couple''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``husband and wife'' and 
                        inserting ``married couple''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)(9), by striking ``a husband 
                and wife'' and inserting ``the members of a married 
                couple'';
            (16) in section 1244(b)(2), by striking ``husband and 
        wife'' and inserting ``married couple'';
            (17) in section 1272(a)(2)(E)(iii)--
                    (A) in the heading of such clause, by striking 
                ``husband and wife'' and inserting ``married couple''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``husband and wife'' and inserting 
                ``married couple'';
            (18) in section 1313(c)(1), by striking ``husband and 
        wife'' and inserting ``spouse'';
            (19) in section 1361(c)(1)(A)(i), by striking ``husband and 
        wife'' and inserting ``married couple'';
            (20) in the heading of section 2040(b), by striking 
        ``husband and wife'' and inserting ``spouses'';
            (21) in the item relating to section 2513 in the table of 
        contents for subchapter B of chapter 12 of subtitle B, by 
        striking ``husband or wife'' and inserting ``spouse'';
            (22) in the heading of section 2513, by striking ``husband 
        or wife'' and inserting ``spouse'';
            (23) in section 2516, by striking ``a husband and wife'' 
        and inserting ``the members of a married couple'';
            (24) in section 5733(d)(2), by striking ``a husband or 
        wife'' and inserting ``an individual'';
            (25) in the item relating to section 6013 in the table of 
        contents for subpart B of part II of subchapter A of chapter 61 
        of subtitle F, by striking ``husband and wife'' and inserting 
        ``married couple'';
            (26) in section 6013--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``husband and 
                wife'' and inserting ``married couple'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                        by striking ``husband and wife'' and inserting 
                        ``married couple'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the 
                        husband or wife'' and inserting ``spouse''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                        ``husband and wife'' and inserting ``spouses'';
                    (C) in subsection (b)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``filed by the husband and 
                        wife'' and inserting ``filed by the married 
                        couple''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``the return of the 
                        husband and wife'' and inserting ``the return 
                        of both spouses'';
                    (D) in subsection (c), by striking ``the husband 
                and wife'' and inserting ``the spouses''; and
                    (E) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``husband and 
                wife'' and inserting ``a married couple'';
            (27) in the matter following section 6014(b)(4), by 
        striking ``husband and wife'' and inserting ``a married 
        couple'';
            (28) in section 6017, by striking ``husband and wife'' and 
        inserting ``married couple'';
            (29) in section 6096(a), by striking ``husband and wife'' 
        and inserting ``a married couple'';
            (30) in section 6166(b)(2)(B)--
                    (A) in the heading of such subparagraph, by 
                striking ``husband and wife'' and inserting ``a married 
                couple'';
                    (B) in clause (i), by striking ``husband and wife'' 
                and inserting ``married couple''; and
                    (C) in clause (ii) by striking ``husband and wife'' 
                and inserting ``married couple'';
            (31) in section 6212(b)(2), by striking ``husband and 
        wife'' and inserting ``a married couple'';
            (32) in section 6231(a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(B)(i), by striking ``a husband 
                and wife'' and inserting ``a married couple''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (12)--
                            (i) by amending the heading to read as 
                        follows:
            ``(12) Spouses.--''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``a husband and wife'' and 
                        inserting ``spouses'';
            (33) in section 7428(c)(2)(A), by striking ``husband and 
        wife'' and inserting ``married couple'';
            (34) in section 7701(a), by amending paragraph (17) to read 
        as follows:
            ``(17) Divorced spouses.--As used in sections 682 and 2516, 
        if the married couple therein referred to are divorced, 
        wherever appropriate to the meaning of such sections the term 
        `spouse' shall be read `former spouse' and the term `married 
        couple' shall be read `former married couple'.''; and
            (35) in section 7872(f)(7)--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``Husband and 
                wife'' and inserting ``Married couple''; and
                    (B) by striking ``husband and wife'' and inserting 
                ``married couple''.
    (q) Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.--The Longshore 
and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 901 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 2(16), by striking ``wife or husband'' and 
        inserting ``spouse'';
            (2) in section 5(a), by striking ``husband or wife'' and 
        inserting ``spouse'';
            (3) in section 8(d)(1)(D), by striking ``wife, husband,'' 
        and inserting ``spouse''; and
            (4) in section 9--
                    (A) in subsection (d), by striking ``wife or 
                husband'' each place such term appears and inserting 
                ``spouse''; and
                    (B) in subsection (g), by striking ``wife'' each 
                place such term appears and inserting ``spouse''.
    (r) National Housing Act.--Section 527(a) of the National Housing 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1735f-5(a)) is amended by striking ``husband and wife'' 
and inserting ``spouses''.
    (s) Act of September 5, 1962.--Section 3(c) of the Act of September 
5, 1962, entitled ``An Act to provide for the division of the tribal 
assets of the Ponca Tribe of Native Americans of Nebraska among the 
members of the tribe, and for other purposes.'' (25 U.S.C. 973(c)) is 
amended by striking ``wife'' and inserting ``spouse''.
    (t) Railroad Retirement Act of 1974.--The Railroad Retirement Act 
of 1974 (45 U.S.C. 231 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 2--
                    (A) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(ii), by striking 
                        ``(C), in the case of a wife, has in her care 
                        (individually or jointly with her husband)'' 
                        and inserting ``(C) has in his or her care 
                        (individually or jointly with his or her 
                        spouse)'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                        ``divorced wife'' each place such term appears 
                        and inserting ``divorced spouse'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) by striking ``(i)''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``; and (ii) in 
                                the case of a husband, was receiving at 
                                least one-half of his support from his 
                                wife at the time his wife's annuity 
                                under subsection (a)(1) began'';
                            (iv) in paragraph (4), by striking 
                        ``divorced wife'' each place such term appears 
                        and inserting ``divorced spouse''; and
                            (v) in the matter following paragraph (4), 
                        by striking ``divorced wife's annuity'' and 
                        inserting ``divorced spouse's annuity'';
                    (B) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) in clause (i)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``a widow 
                                        (as defined in section 216 (c) 
                                        and (k) of the Social Security 
                                        Act) or widower (as defined in 
                                        section 216 (g) and (k) of the 
                                        Social Security Act)'' and 
                                        inserting ``a surviving spouse 
                                        (as defined in section 216(a) 
                                        of the Social Security Act)''; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) by striking ``, and 
                                        who, in the case of a widower, 
                                        was receiving at least one-half 
                                        his support from the deceased 
                                        employee at the time of her 
                                        death or at the time her 
                                        annuity under subsection (a)(1) 
                                        began'';
                                    (II) in clause (ii)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``a widow 
                                        (as defined in section 216 (c) 
                                        and (k) of the Social Security 
                                        Act)'' and inserting ``a 
                                        surviving spouse (as defined in 
                                        section 216(a) of the Social 
                                        Security Act)''; and
                                            (bb) by inserting ``his 
                                        or'' before ``her'';
                                    (III) in clause (iv), by striking 
                                ``widow or widower'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse''; and
                                    (IV) in clause (v)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``The 
                                        widow (as defined in section 
                                        216(c) of the Social Security 
                                        Act)'' and inserting ``the 
                                        surviving spouse (as defined in 
                                        section 216(a) of the Social 
                                        Security Act)'';
                                            (bb) by striking ``wife (as 
                                        defined in section 216(d)'' and 
                                        inserting ``spouse (as defined 
                                        in section 216(a)'';
                                            (cc) by striking ``mother 
                                        (as defined'' and inserting 
                                        ``parent (as defined'';
                                            (dd) by striking ``widow, 
                                        surviving divorced wife, or 
                                        surviving divorced mother'' 
                                        each place such term appears 
                                        and inserting ``surviving 
                                        spouse, surviving divorced 
                                        spouse, or surviving divorced 
                                        parent''; and
                                            (ee) by striking ``202(f)'' 
                                        and inserting ``202(e)'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``, (B) in the case 
                                of a widow, the last month for which 
                                she was entitled to an annuity under 
                                paragraph (ii) of subdivision (1) as 
                                the widow of the deceased employee,''; 
                                and
                                    (II) by striking ``widow or 
                                widower'' and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (3), by striking 
                        ``widow, widower, or child'' and inserting 
                        ``surviving spouse or child''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (4)--
                                    (I) by striking ``wife, husband, 
                                widow, widower'' and inserting 
                                ``spouse, surviving spouse'';
                                    (II) by striking ``or (c)'';
                                    (III) by striking ``subsection, 
                                (e), (f), or (g)'' and inserting 
                                ``subsection (e) or (g)''; and
                                    (IV) by striking 
                                ``202(d)(7)(c)(i)'' and inserting 
                                ``202(d)(7)(C)(i)'';
                    (C) in subsection (e)(5), by striking ``divorced 
                wife'' and inserting ``divorced spouse'';
                    (D) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``wife's'' 
                each place such term appears and inserting 
                ``spouse's''; and
                    (E) in subsection (h)(3), by striking ``wife'' and 
                inserting ``spouse'';
            (2) in section 3--
                    (A) in subsection (f)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``wife's 
                        or husband's'' and inserting ``spouse's''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``wife'' 
                        and inserting ``spouse''; and
                    (B) in subsection (h)--
                            (i) by striking ``wife, husband, widow, or 
                        widower'' each place such term appears and 
                        inserting ``spouse or surviving spouse''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``wife's, husband's, 
                        widow's, or widower's'' and inserting 
                        ``spouse's or surviving spouse's'';
            (3) in section 4--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``divorced wife'' 
                                each place such term appears and 
                                inserting ``divorced spouse''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``wife's insurance 
                                benefit or the husband's insurance 
                                benefit'' and inserting ``spouse's 
                                insurance benefit''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking 
                        ``section 202(a), section 202(b), or section 
                        202(c)'' and inserting ``section 202(a) or 
                        section 202(c)'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) by striking ``wife's or husband's 
                        insurance benefit'' each place such term 
                        appears and inserting ``spouse's insurance 
                        benefit''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (4), by striking ``wife's 
                        and husband's'' and inserting ``spouse's'';
                    (C) in subsection (f)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow's insurance 
                                benefit, widower's insurance benefit, 
                                mother's insurance benefits, parent's 
                                insurance benefit, or child's insurance 
                                benefit'' and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse's insurance benefit, parent's 
                                insurance benefit, or child's insurance 
                                benefit'';
                                    (II) by striking ``widow or 
                                widower'' and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse''; and
                                    (III) by striking ``widow's 
                                insurance benefit or widower's 
                                insurance benefit payable under section 
                                202(e) or 202(f)'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse's insurance benefit 
                                payable under section 202(e)'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow or 
                                widower'' each place such term appears 
                                and inserting ``surviving spouse'';
                                    (II) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``widow's insurance benefit, a 
                                widower's insurance benefit, or'' and 
                                inserting ``surviving spouse's benefit 
                                or''; and
                                    (III) in clause (iii), by striking 
                                ``widow, surviving divorced wife, or 
                                surviving divorced mother'' and 
                                inserting ``surviving spouse, surviving 
                                divorced spouse, or surviving divorced 
                                parent''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``widow 
                        or widower'' and inserting ``surviving 
                        spouse'';
                    (D) in subsection (g)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(i), by striking 
                        ``widow or widower'' each place such term 
                        appears and inserting ``surviving spouse'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (4)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow or 
                                widower'' each place such term appears 
                                and inserting ``surviving spouse''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``widow's or 
                                widower's'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse's'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (5), by striking 
                        ``widow, surviving divorced wife, or surviving 
                        divorced mother'' and inserting ``surviving 
                        spouse, surviving divorced spouse, or surviving 
                        divorced parent''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (10)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow or 
                                widower'' each place such term appears 
                                and inserting ``surviving spouse'';
                                    (II) by striking ``widow's or 
                                widower's'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse's''; and
                                    (III) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``widow or widower's'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse's'';
                    (E) in subsection (h)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow or 
                                widower'' each place such term appears 
                                and inserting ``surviving spouse'';
                                    (II) by striking ``widow's or 
                                widower's'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse's''; and
                                    (III) by striking ``or 202(f)''; 
                                and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``widow, 
                        surviving divorced wife, or surviving divorced 
                        mother'' and inserting ``surviving spouse, 
                        surviving divorced spouse, or surviving 
                        divorced parent''; and
                    (F) in subsection (i), by striking ``spouse or 
                divorced wife'' each place such term appears and 
                inserting ``spouse or divorced spouse'';
            (4) in section 5--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in clause (v), by striking ``wife, 
                        husband, widow, or widower'' and inserting 
                        ``spouse or surviving spouse''; and
                            (ii) in clause (vii), by striking ``wife's 
                        or husband's'' and inserting ``spouse's'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``widow or 
                widower'' and inserting ``spouse''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) by striking ``wife'' each place 
                                such term appears and inserting 
                                ``spouse''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``his or'' before 
                                ``her'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (4), by striking ``widow 
                        or widower'' and inserting ``surviving 
                        spouse'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (5), by striking ``widow 
                        or widower'' and inserting ``surviving 
                        spouse'';
                            (iv) in paragraph (6)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow'' and 
                                inserting ``surviving spouse'';
                                    (II) by striking ``she dies'' and 
                                inserting ``such surviving spouse 
                                dies'';
                                    (III) by striking ``she remarries'' 
                                and inserting ``such surviving spouse 
                                remarries''; and
                                    (IV) by striking ``she no longer'' 
                                and inserting ``such surviving spouse 
                                no longer''; and
                            (v) in paragraph (9)(B), by striking 
                        ``widow's or widower's'' and inserting 
                        ``surviving spouse's'';
            (5) in section 6--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``widow 
                        or widower'' each place such term appears and 
                        inserting ``surviving spouse'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``widow 
                        or widower'' each place such term appears and 
                        inserting ``surviving spouse'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) by striking ``wife'' and 
                                inserting ``spouse''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``wife's'' and 
                                inserting ``spouse's'';
                            (iv) in paragraph (6), by striking ``widow 
                        or widower'' and inserting ``surviving 
                        spouse''; and
                            (v) in paragraph (7), by striking ``widow, 
                        widower'' and inserting ``surviving spouse'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``wife'' 
                        and inserting ``spouse''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow surviving 
                                divorced wife, widower'' and inserting 
                                ``no surviving spouse, surviving 
                                divorced spouse''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``widow or 
                                widower'' each place such term appears 
                                and inserting ``surviving spouse'';
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow, widower, 
                                or parent'' and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse or parent'';
                                    (II) in clause (i), by striking 
                                ``widow or widower'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse'';
                                    (III) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``widow or widower'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse'';
                                    (IV) in clause (iii), by striking 
                                ``widow, widower, or child'' and 
                                inserting ``surviving spouse or 
                                child'';
                                    (V) in clause (iv), by striking 
                                ``widow, widower'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse'';
                                    (VI) in clause (v), by striking 
                                ``widow, widower'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse'';
                                    (VII) in clause (vi), by striking 
                                ``widow, widower'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse''; and
                                    (VIII) in the matter following 
                                clause (vi), by striking ``widow, 
                                widower, or parent'' each place such 
                                term appears and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse or parent''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``divorced wife'' and 
                                inserting ``surviving divorced 
                                spouse'';
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``widow'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse''; and
                                    (III) in the matter following 
                                subparagraph (B), by striking 
                                ``divorced wife'' and inserting 
                                ``survivor'';
                    (D) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``widow or 
                widower'' each place such term appears and inserting 
                ``surviving spouse''; and
                    (E) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``widow or 
                widower'' each place such term appears and inserting 
                ``surviving spouse'';
            (6) in section 7--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2)(B), by striking ``wife or 
                divorced wife or husband'' and inserting ``spouse or 
                divorced spouse''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)(2)(i), by striking ``in the 
                case of a spouse or divorced wife, had such spouse's 
                husband or wife'' and inserting ``in the case of a 
                spouse or divorced spouse, had such person's spouse''; 
                and
            (7) in section 19(a)--
                    (A) by striking ``wife's insurance benefits payable 
                to a wife, husband's insurance benefits'' and inserting 
                ``spouse's insurance benefits''; and
                    (B) by striking ``widow's insurance benefits 
                payable to a widow, widower's insurance benefits, 
                mother's insurance benefits payable to a widow'' and 
                inserting ``surviving spouse's benefits payable to a 
                surviving spouse, parent's insurance benefits payable 
                to a surviving spouse''.
    (u) Small Business Investment Act of 1958.--Section 503(a)(2) of 
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 697(a)(2)) is 
amended by striking ``wife, husband'' and inserting ``spouse''.
    (v) Social Security Act.--The Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 202--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking ``Wife's'' 
                        and inserting ``Spouse's'';
                            (ii) by striking ``wife'' each place such 
                        term appears and inserting ``spouse'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``(as defined in 
                                section 216(b))'';
                                    (II) by striking ``(as defined in 
                                section 216(d))'';
                                    (III) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``her'' and inserting ``such 
                                spouse's'';
                                    (IV) in subparagraph (D)(i), by 
                                striking ``she'' and inserting ``such 
                                spouse or divorced spouse'';
                                    (V) in the matter following 
                                subparagraph (D)(ii)(II), by inserting 
                                before ``she'' each place such word 
                                appears the following: ``he or'';
                                    (VI) in subparagraph (E), by 
                                striking ``she'' and inserting ``such 
                                spouse'';
                                    (VII) in subparagraph (G), by 
                                striking ``she'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``such spouse'';
                                    (VIII) in subparagraph (H), by 
                                inserting ``he or'' before ``she''; and
                                    (IX) in subparagraph (J), by 
                                striking ``she'' and inserting ``such 
                                spouse''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by inserting before ``her'' 
                                each place such term appears ``his 
                                or''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``husband'' each 
                                place such term appears and inserting 
                                ``spouse'';
                    (B) by striking subsection (c);
                    (C) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking ``Widow's'' 
                        and inserting ``Surviving spouse's'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``widow 
                                        (as defined in section 
                                        216(c))'' and inserting 
                                        ``surviving spouse'';
                                            (bb) by striking ``wife (as 
                                        defined in section 216(d))'' 
                                        and inserting ``spouse''; and
                                            (cc) by striking ``widow or 
                                        surviving divorced wife'' and 
                                        inserting ``surviving spouse or 
                                        surviving divorced spouse'';
                                    (II) in subparagraph (C)--
                                            (aa) in clause (i), by 
                                        striking ``widow's'' and 
                                        inserting ``surviving 
                                        spouse's'';
                                            (bb) in clause (ii)--

                                                    (AA) in the matter 
                                                preceding subclause 
                                                (I), by striking 
                                                ``wife's'' and 
                                                inserting ``spouse's''; 
                                                and

                                                    (BB) in subclause 
                                                (III), by inserting 
                                                ``he or'' before 
                                                ``she'' and by 
                                                inserting ``him or'' 
                                                before ``her''; and

                                            (cc) in clause (iii), by 
                                        inserting ``father's or'' 
                                        before ``mother's'';
                                    (III) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (E), by striking 
                                ``widow's'' and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse's'';
                                    (IV) in subparagraph (E), by 
                                inserting before ``she'' each place 
                                such word appears the following: ``he 
                                or'';
                                    (V) in subparagraph (F), by 
                                inserting before ``she'' each place 
                                such word appears the following: ``he 
                                or''; and
                                    (VI) in the matter following 
                                subparagraph (F)(ii) by inserting 
                                before ``she'' each place such word 
                                appears the following: ``he or'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow's 
                                insurance'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse's insurance'';
                                    (II) by striking ``surviving 
                                divorced wife'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``surviving 
                                divorced spouse''; and
                                    (III) by striking ``widow'' each 
                                place such term appears and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse'';
                            (iv) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow'' each 
                                place such term appears and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse'';
                                    (II) by striking ``surviving 
                                divorced wife'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``surviving 
                                divorced spouse''; and
                                    (III) by inserting ``he or'' before 
                                ``she'';
                            (v) in paragraph (4)--
                                    (I) by inserting before ``her'' 
                                each place such term appears the 
                                following: ``his or'';
                                    (II) by inserting before ``she'' 
                                each place such term appears the 
                                following ``he or'';
                                    (III) by striking ``widow or 
                                surviving divorced wife'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse or surviving 
                                divorced spouse''; and
                                    (IV) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                inserting ``or father's'' before 
                                ``insurance'';
                            (vi) in paragraph (5)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow or 
                                surviving divorced wife'' each place 
                                such term appears and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse or surviving 
                                divorced spouse''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) in clause (i), by 
                                        inserting ``he or'' before 
                                        ``she''; and
                                            (bb) in clause (ii)(I), by 
                                        inserting ``his or'' before 
                                        ``her''; and
                            (vii) in the matter following paragraph 
                        (7)(B), by striking ``she'' and inserting 
                        ``such individual'';
                    (D) by striking subsection (f);
                    (E) in the matter following subsection (i)(2), by 
                striking ``wife's or husband's'' and inserting 
                ``spouse's'';
                    (F) in subsection (j)(4)(B)(i)--
                            (i) by striking ``widow, surviving divorced 
                        wife or widower'' and inserting ``surviving 
                        spouse or surviving divorced spouse'';
                            (ii) by striking ``widow or widower'' and 
                        inserting ``surviving spouse''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``surviving divorced 
                        wife'' and inserting ``surviving divorced 
                        spouse'';
                    (G) in subsection (q)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``wife's, 
                                husband's, widow's, or widower's'' and 
                                inserting ``spouse's, or surviving 
                                spouse's''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``wife's 
                                        or husband's'' and inserting 
                                        ``spouse's''; and
                                            (bb) by striking ``widow's 
                                        or widower's'' and inserting 
                                        ``surviving spouse's'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``wife's, 
                                        husband's, widow's, or 
                                        widower's'' and inserting 
                                        ``spouse's or surviving 
                                        spouse's'';
                                            (bb) by striking ``wife's 
                                        or husband's'' and inserting 
                                        ``spouse's''; and
                                            (cc) by striking ``widow's 
                                        or widower's'' and inserting 
                                        ``surviving spouse's'';
                                    (II) in the matter following 
                                subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking 
                                ``wife's, husband's, widow's, or 
                                widower's'' and inserting ``spouse's or 
                                surviving spouse's'';
                                    (III) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``wife's or husband's'' each 
                                place such term appears and inserting 
                                ``spouse's'';
                                    (IV) in subparagraph (C), by 
                                striking ``wife's, husband's, widow's, 
                                or widower's'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``spouse's or 
                                surviving spouse's'';
                                    (V) in subparagraph (D), by 
                                striking ``wife's, husband's, widow's, 
                                or widower's'' and inserting ``spouse's 
                                or surviving spouse's''; and
                                    (VI) in subparagraph (E), by 
                                striking ``widow's or widower's'' each 
                                place such term appears and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (5)--
                                    (I) by striking ``wife's or 
                                husband's'' each place such word 
                                appears and inserting ``spouse's''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (D), by 
                                striking ``widow's or widower's'' and 
                                inserting ``surviving spouse's'';
                            (iv) in paragraph (6)--
                                    (I) by striking ``wife's, 
                                husband's, widow's, or widower's'' and 
                                inserting ``spouse's, or surviving 
                                spouse's''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) in clause (ii), by 
                                        striking ``wife's or 
                                        husband's'' and inserting 
                                        ``spouse's''; and
                                            (bb) in clause (iii), by 
                                        striking ``widow's or 
                                        widower's'' and inserting 
                                        ``surviving spouse's'';
                            (v) in paragraph (7)--
                                    (I) by striking ``wife's, 
                                husband's, widow's, or widower's'' and 
                                inserting ``spouse's, or surviving 
                                spouse's'';
                                    (II) by striking ``wife's or 
                                husband's'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``spouse's''; and
                                    (III) as amended by subclause (I), 
                                by striking ``widow's or widower's'' 
                                each place such term appears and 
                                inserting ``surviving spouse's'';
                            (vi) in paragraph (9)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``old-age insurance benefits, 
                                wife's insurance benefits, and 
                                husband's insurance benefits'' and 
                                inserting ``old-age insurance benefits 
                                and spouse's insurance benefits''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``widow's insurance benefits 
                                and widower's insurance benefits'' and 
                                inserting ``surviving spouse's 
                                insurance benefits''; and
                            (vii) in paragraph (10)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``old-age, wife's, and 
                                husband's'' and inserting ``old-age and 
                                spouse's''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``widow's and 
                                widower's'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse's'';
                    (H) in subsection (r)--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking ``Wife's or 
                        Husband's'' and inserting ``Spouse's'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking ``wife's 
                        or husband's'' each place such term appears and 
                        inserting ``spouse's''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                        ``wife's or husband's'' and inserting 
                        ``spouse's''; and
                    (I) in subsection (t)(11)(B), by striking ``a wife, 
                a husband, a widow, a widower, a divorced wife, a 
                divorced husband, a surviving divorced wife, a 
                surviving divorced husband'' and inserting ``a spouse, 
                a surviving spouse, a surviving divorced spouse'';
            (2) in section 203--
                    (A) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``wife or husband'' 
                                and inserting ``spouse''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``wife's or 
                                husband's'' each place such term 
                                appears and inserting ``spouse's'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``widow 
                        or widower'' and inserting ``surviving divorced 
                        spouse''; and
                            (iii) in the matter following subparagraph 
                        (4)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow's or 
                                widower's'' and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse's''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``widow, surviving 
                                divorced wife, widower, or surviving 
                                divorced husband'' and inserting 
                                ``surviving spouse or surviving 
                                divorced spouse'';
                    (B) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) by striking ``wife's, husband's, or 
                        child's'' each place such term appears and 
                        inserting ``spouse's or child's''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``wife, divorced wife, 
                        husband, divorced husband'' and inserting 
                        ``spouse or divorced spouse''; and
                    (C) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``widow's or 
                widower's'' and inserting ``surviving spouse's'';
            (3) in section 205--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``wife, 
                        divorced wife, widow, surviving divorced wife, 
                        surviving divorced mother, surviving divorced 
                        father, husband, divorced husband, widower, 
                        surviving divorced husband'' and inserting 
                        ``spouse, divorced spouse, surviving spouse, 
                        surviving divorced spouse, surviving mother, 
                        surviving father''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking 
                        ``child's, widow's, or widower's'' and 
                        inserting ``child's or surviving spouse's'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1)(C), by striking ``spouse, 
                surviving divorced wife, surviving divorced husband'' 
                and inserting ``spouse, surviving divorced spouse'';
                    (C) in subsection (i), by striking ``wife or 
                husband'' and inserting ``spouse'';
                    (D) in subsection (j)(8), by striking ``child's, 
                widow's, or widower's'' and inserting ``child's or 
                surviving spouse's''; and
                    (E) in subsection (q)(5)--
                            (i) by striking ``wife, husband or child'' 
                        and inserting ``spouse or child''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``widow or widower'' and 
                        inserting ``surviving spouse'';
            (4) in section 215(h)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``him, his wife, 
                and his children, or, if he has died, to his widow and 
                children'' and inserting ``him, his spouse, and his 
                children, or, if he has died, to his surviving spouse 
                and children''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``himself, his wife, and 
                        his children'' and inserting ``himself, his 
                        spouse, and his children''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``his widow, if any'' and 
                        inserting ``his surviving spouse, if any'';
            (5) in section 216--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the 
                following new paragraph:
            ``(3) The term `surviving divorced spouse' means a 
        surviving divorced wife or a surviving divorced husband.'';
                    (B) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the 
                following new paragraph:
            ``(9) The term `divorced spouse' means a divorced wife or a 
        divorced husband.''; and
                    (C) in subsection (l)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``old-age, wife's, or 
                        husband's'' and inserting ``old-age or 
                        spouse's''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``widow's or widower's'' 
                        and inserting ``surviving spouse's'';
            (6) in section 222--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``202(d), 
                202(e), or 202(f)'' and inserting ``202(d), or 
                202(e)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)(1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                        ``widow's'' and inserting ``surviving 
                        spouse's''; and
                            (ii) by striking subparagraph (D);
            (7) in section 225(a), by striking ``or that a widow or 
        surviving divorced wife who has not attained age 60 and is 
        entitled to benefits under section 202(e), or that a widower or 
        surviving divorced husband who has not attained age 60 and is 
        entitled to benefits under section 202(f)'' and inserting ``or 
        that a surviving spouse or surviving divorced spouse who has 
        not attained age 60 and is entitled to benefits under section 
        202(e)'';
            (8) in section 226--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2)(A)(iii), by striking 
                ``widow's insurance benefits under section 202(e) or 
                widower's insurance benefits under section 202(f)'' and 
                inserting ``surviving spouse's insurance benefits under 
                section 202(e)'';
                    (B) in the matter following subsection 
                (b)(2)(C)(ii)(II), by striking ``in the last sentence 
                of section 202(e)(1), and in the last sentence of 
                section 202(f)(1)'' and inserting ``and in the last 
                sentence of section 202(e)(1)''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``widows 
                                        and widowers'' and inserting 
                                        ``surviving spouses'';
                                            (bb) in clause (i), by 
                                        striking ``sections 
                                        202(e)(1)(B)(ii), 202(e)(4), 
                                        202(f)(1)(B)(ii), and 
                                        202(f)(4)'' and inserting 
                                        ``sections 202(e)(1)(B)(ii) and 
                                        202(e)(4)''; and
                                            (cc) in clause (ii), by 
                                        striking ``and the phrase 
                                        `before he attained age 60' in 
                                        the matter following 
                                        subparagraph (F) of section 
                                        202(f)(1) shall each'' and 
                                        inserting ``shall''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``widow's or widower's'' and 
                                inserting ``surviving spouse's'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``widow's insurance 
                                benefits or widower's insurance 
                                benefits'' each place such term appears 
                                and inserting ``surviving spouse's 
                                insurance benefits''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``widow's or 
                                widower's'' and inserting ``surviving 
                                spouse's'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) by striking ``any disabled 
                                widow aged 50 or older who is entitled 
                                to mother's insurance benefits (and who 
                                would have been entitled to widow's 
                                insurance benefits by reason of 
                                disability if she had filed for such 
                                widow's benefits), and any disabled 
                                widower aged 50 or older who is 
                                entitled to father's insurance benefits 
                                (and who would have been entitled to 
                                widower's insurance benefits by reason 
                                of disability if he had filed for such 
                                widower's benefits)'' and inserting 
                                ``any disabled surviving spouse aged 50 
                                or older who is entitled to mother's or 
                                father's insurance benefits (and who 
                                would have been entitled to surviving 
                                spouse's insurance benefits by reason 
                                of disability if he or she had filed 
                                for such surviving spouse's 
                                benefits)''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``such widow's or 
                                widower's'' and inserting ``such 
                                surviving spouse's''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (4), by striking 
                        ``widow's or widower's insurance benefits under 
                        section 202(e) or (f)'' and inserting 
                        ``surviving spouse's benefits under section 
                        202(e)'';
            (9) in section 227--
                    (A) by striking ``section 202(e) or section 
                202(f)'' each place such term appears and inserting 
                ``section 202(e)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``section 202(b) or section 
                202(c)'' each place such term appears and inserting 
                ``section 202(b)'';
            (10) in section 228--
                    (A) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``husband 
                        and wife'' and inserting ``married couple'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking 
                        ``husband or wife'' and inserting ``married 
                        couple'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (6), by striking 
                        ``husband and wife both of whom'' and inserting 
                        ``married couple of which both spouses''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (8), by striking ``of a 
                        husband and wife'' and inserting ``of a married 
                        couple''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``husband or 
                wife'' each place such term appears and inserting 
                ``spouse'';
            (11) in section 1107, by striking ``wife, husband, widow, 
        widower, divorced wife, divorced husband, surviving divorced 
        wife, surviving divorced husband'' each place such term appears 
        and inserting ``spouse, surviving spouse, divorced spouse, 
        surviving divorced spouse'';
            (12) in section 1128(j)(1)(A), by striking ``husband or 
        wife'' and inserting ``spouse'';
            (13) in section 1611(e)(3)--
                    (A) by striking ``husband and wife are'' and 
                inserting ``married couple is''; and
                    (B) as amended by subparagraph (A), by striking 
                ``husband and wife'' each place such term appears and 
                inserting ``married couple'';
            (14) in subsection 1614(b)--
                    (A) by striking ``husband or wife'' and inserting 
                ``spouse''; and
                    (B) by striking ``husband and wife'' and inserting 
                ``a married couple''; and
            (15) in section 1631(b)(1)(A)(i), by striking ``husband or 
        wife'' and inserting ``spouse''.
    (w) Title 1.--Section 7 of title 1, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``one man and one woman as husband and wife, and the word 
`spouse' refers only to a person of the opposite sex who is a husband 
or wife'' and inserting ``two people as spouses''.
    (x) Title 5.--Title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 2108(3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``wife or 
                husband'' and inserting ``spouse'';
                    (B) by amending subparagraph (F) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(F) the parent of an individual who lost his life 
                under honorable conditions while serving in the armed 
                forces during a period named by paragraph (1)(A) of 
                this section;''; and
                    (C) by amending subparagraph (G) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(G) the parent of a service-connected permanently 
                and totally disabled veteran; and'';
            (2) in section 3110(a)(3), by striking ``husband, wife'' 
        and inserting ``spouse'';
            (3) in section 5561(3)(A), by striking ``wife'' and 
        inserting ``spouse'';
            (4) in section 8110(a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the matter before subparagraph (A), 
                        by striking ``wife'' and inserting ``spouse'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``she'' and inserting ``the spouse'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by striking ``she'' and 
                                inserting ``the spouse''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``her'' and 
                                inserting ``the spouse's''; and
                            (iv) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                        ``her'' and inserting ``the spouse's'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2);
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as 
                paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively; and
                    (D) as amended by subparagraph (C), in the matter 
                following paragraph (3), by striking ``paragraph (3)'' 
                and inserting ``paragraph (2)'';
            (5) in section 8133, in the matter following subsection 
        (b)(3), by striking ``husband or wife'' and inserting 
        ``spouse''; and
            (6) in the matter following section 8443(b)(3)(E), by 
        striking ``wife or husband'' each place such term appears and 
        inserting ``spouse''.
    (y) Title 10.--Section 701(j)(1) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``wife'' and inserting ``spouse''.
    (z) Title 11.--Section 522(b)(1) of title 11, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``husband and wife'' and inserting ``married to 
one another''.
    (aa) Title 18.--Section 879(b)(1)(A) of title 18, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``wife'' and inserting ``spouse'';
            (2) by inserting after ``during his'' the following: ``or 
        her'';
            (3) by striking ``widow'' and inserting ``surviving 
        spouse''; and
            (4) by inserting before ``her death'' the following: ``his 
        or''.
    (bb) Title 28.--Section 3014(a) of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``husband and wife'' and inserting ``married to one 
another''.
    (cc) Title 38.--Section 101 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``of the opposite sex'' each place such term 
appears.
    (dd) Trading With the Enemy Act.--Section 31 of the Trading With 
the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. App. 31) is amended by striking ``wife'' and 
inserting ``spouse''.
    (ee) Workforce Investment Act of 1998.--Section 101(15) of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2801(15)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``husband, wife,'' and 
        inserting ``married couple''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``husband and wife'' 
        and inserting ``married couple''.
                                 <all>
