[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3033 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                      February 3, 2016.
    Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 
3033) entitled ``An Act to require the President's annual budget 
request to Congress each year to include a line item for the Research 
in Disabilities Education program of the National Science Foundation 
and to require the National Science Foundation to conduct research on 
dyslexia.'', do pass with the following

                               AMENDMENT:

            Strike section 4 of the bill and insert the following:

SEC. 4. DYSLEXIA.

    (a) In General.--Consistent with subsection (c), the National 
Science Foundation shall support multi-directorate, merit-reviewed, and 
competitively awarded research on the science of specific learning 
disability, including dyslexia, such as research on the early 
identification of children and students with dyslexia, professional 
development for teachers and administrators of students with dyslexia, 
curricula and educational tools needed for children with dyslexia, and 
implementation and scaling of successful models of dyslexia 
intervention. Research supported under this subsection shall be 
conducted with the goal of practical application.
    (b) Awards.--To promote development of early career researchers, in 
awarding funds under subsection (a) the National Science Foundation 
shall prioritize applications for funding submitted by early career 
researchers.
    (c) Coordination.--To prevent unnecessary duplication of research, 
activities under this Act shall be coordinated with similar activities 
supported by other Federal agencies, including research funded by the 
Institute of Education Sciences and the National Institutes of Health.
    (d) Funding.--The National Science Foundation shall devote not less 
than $5,000,000 to research described in subsection (a), which shall 
include not less than $2,500,000 for research on the science of 
dyslexia, for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021, subject to the 
availability of appropriations, to come from amounts made available for 
the Research and Related Activities account or the Education and Human 
Resources Directorate under subsection (e). This section shall be 
carried out using funds otherwise appropriated by law after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (e) Authorization.--For each of fiscal years 2016 through 2021, 
there are authorized out of funds appropriated to the National Science 
Foundation, $5,000,000 to carry out the activities described in 
subsection (a).

SEC. 5. DEFINITION OF SPECIFIC LEARNING DISABILITY.

    In this Act, the term ``specific learning disability''--
            (1) means a disorder in 1 or more of the basic 
        psychological processes involved in understanding or in using 
        language, spoken or written, which disorder may manifest itself 
        in the imperfect ability to listen, think, speak, read, write, 
        spell, or do mathematical calculations;
            (2) includes such conditions as perceptual disabilities, 
        brain injury, minimal brain dysfunction, dyslexia, and 
        developmental aphasia; and
            (3) does not include a learning problem that is primarily 
        the result of visual, hearing, or motor disabilities, of 
        intellectual disability, of emotional disturbance, or of 
        environmental, cultural, or economic disadvantage.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H.R. 3033

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENT
