[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. Res. 474 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
S. RES. 474

  Prohibiting consideration of appropriations that are not authorized.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 25, 2016

Mr. Flake (for himself, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Lee, Mr. Rubio, and Mr. Cruz) 
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee 
                      on Rules and Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Prohibiting consideration of appropriations that are not authorized.

    Resolved,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This resolution may be cited as the ``Steermark Accountability 
Resolution''.

SEC. 2. UNAUTHORIZED APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Point of Order.--It shall not be in order in the Senate to 
consider any bill, joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment 
between the Houses, or conference report containing a provision making 
an appropriation--
            (1) that is not made to carry out the provisions of some 
        existing law, or treaty stipulation, or act or resolution 
        previously passed by the Senate during that session; or
            (2) that is made to carry out a program, project, or 
        activity for which an authorization of appropriations is not in 
        effect.
    (b) Form of the Point of Order.--In the Senate, a point of order 
under subsection (a) may be raised by a Senator as provided in section 
313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 644(e)).
    (c) Conference Reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in relation 
to, a joint resolution, upon a point of order being made by any Senator 
pursuant to subsection (a), and such point of order being sustained, 
such material contained in such conference report or House amendment 
shall be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to consider the 
question of whether the Senate shall recede from its amendment and 
concur with a further amendment, or concur in the House amendment with 
a further amendment, as the case may be, which further amendment shall 
consist of only that portion of the conference report or House 
amendment, as the case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the 
Senate shall be decided under the same debate limitation, if any, as 
the conference report or amendment between the Houses. In any case in 
which such point of order is sustained against a conference report (or 
Senate amendment derived from such conference report by operation of 
this subsection), no further amendment shall be in order.
    (d) Waiver and Appeal.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (a) may be waived or suspended 
        in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three-fifths of 
        the Members, duly chosen and sworn. An affirmative vote of 
        three-fifths of the Members of the Senate, duly chosen and 
        sworn, shall be required to sustain an appeal of the ruling of 
        the Chair on a point of order raised under subsection (a).
            (2) Debate.--A motion to waive or suspend subsection (a) or 
        to appeal the ruling of the Chair under subsection (a) shall be 
        decided under the same debate limitation, if any, as the bill, 
        joint resolution, motion, amendment, amendment between the 
        Houses, or conference report containing the applicable 
        provision.
    (e) Identification by Committee.--
            (1) Statement for the record.--If a committee reports a 
        bill or joint resolution containing an appropriation described 
        in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a), the Chairman of the 
        committee shall submit for printing in the Congressional Record 
        a statement identifying each such appropriation through lists, 
        charts, or other similar means.
            (2) Publication.--As soon as practicable after submitting a 
        statement under paragraph (1), the Chairman of a committee 
        shall make available on a publicly accessible congressional 
        website the information described in paragraph (1). To the 
        extent technically feasible, information made available on a 
        publicly accessible congressional website under this subsection 
        shall be provided in a searchable format.
                                 <all>
