[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1227 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1227

 To authorize a pilot program in the Department of Defense to enhance 
  efforts to provide job placement assistance and related employment 
  services directly to members of the National Guard and Reserves and 
                     veterans of the Armed Forces.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 3, 2015

  Mr. Takano (for himself, Mr. Cook, and Mr. Mulvaney) introduced the 
following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Armed Services, 
and in addition to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, for a period to 
      be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize a pilot program in the Department of Defense to enhance 
  efforts to provide job placement assistance and related employment 
  services directly to members of the National Guard and Reserves and 
                     veterans of the Armed Forces.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Work for Warriors Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. DIRECT EMPLOYMENT PILOT PROGRAM FOR MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL 
              GUARD AND RESERVE AND VETERANS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Program Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a 
pilot program to enhance the efforts of the Department of Defense to 
provide job placement assistance and related employment services 
directly to members of the National Guard and Reserves and veterans of 
the Armed Forces.
    (b) Administration.--The pilot program shall be offered to, and 
administered by, the adjutants general appointed under section 314 of 
title 32, United States Code.
    (c) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--As a condition on the provision of 
funds under this section to a State to support the operation of the 
pilot program in the State, the State must agree to contribute an 
amount, derived from non-Federal sources, equal to at least 30 percent 
of the funds provided by the Secretary of Defense to the State under 
this section.
    (d) Direct Employment Program Model.--The pilot program should 
follow a job placement program model that focuses on working one-on-one 
with a member of a reserve component to cost-effectively provide job 
placement services, including services such as identifying unemployed 
and underemployed members and veterans, job matching services, resume 
editing, interview preparation, and post-employment follow up. 
Development of the pilot program should be informed by State direct 
employment programs for members and veterans, such as the programs 
conducted in California and South Carolina.
    (e) Evaluation.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop outcome 
measurements to evaluate the success of the pilot program.
    (f) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than March 1, 2019, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report describing the results of the pilot 
        program. The Secretary shall prepare the report in coordination 
        with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau.
            (2) Elements of report.--A report under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description and assessment of the 
                effectiveness and achievements of the pilot program, 
                including the number of members of the reserve 
                components and veterans of the Armed Forces hired and 
                the cost-per-placement of participating members and 
                veterans.
                    (B) An assessment of the impact of the pilot 
                program and increased reserve component employment 
                levels on the readiness of members of the reserve 
                components.
                    (C) A comparison of the pilot program to other 
                programs conducted by the Department of Defense and 
                Department of Veterans Affairs to provide unemployment 
                and underemployment support to members of the reserve 
                components and veterans of the Armed Forces.
                    (D) Any other matters considered appropriate by the 
                Secretary.
    (g) Limitation on Total Fiscal-Year Obligations.--The total amount 
obligated by the Secretary of Defense to carry out the pilot program 
for any fiscal year may not exceed $20,000,000.
    (h) Duration of Authority.--The authority to carry out the pilot 
program expires on September 30, 2018, except that the Secretary may 
extend the pilot program for not more than two additional fiscal years.
                                 <all>
