[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3213 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3213

 To amend title 31, United States Code, to provide for transparency of 
                 payments made from the Judgment Fund.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 14, 2016

 Mr. Lankford (for himself and Mrs. Fischer) introduced the following 
    bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the 
                               Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 31, United States Code, to provide for transparency of 
                 payments made from the Judgment Fund.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Judgment Fund Transparency and 
Terrorism Financing Prevention Act''.

SEC. 2. JUDGMENT FUND TRANSPARENCY.

    (a) Transparency Requirement.--Section 1304 of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d)(1) Unless the disclosure of such information is otherwise 
prohibited by law or court order, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
make available to the public on a website, as soon as practicable, but 
not later than 30 days after the date on which a payment under this 
section is tendered on or after January 1, 2016, the following 
information with regard to that payment:
            ``(A) The name of the specific agency or entity whose 
        actions gave rise to the claim or judgment.
            ``(B) The name of the plaintiff or claimant.
            ``(C) The name of counsel for the plaintiff or claimant.
            ``(D) The amount paid representing principal liability, and 
        any amounts paid representing any ancillary liability, 
        including attorney fees, costs, and interest.
            ``(E) A brief description of the facts that gave rise to 
        the claim.
            ``(F) The name of the agency that submitted the claim.
    ``(2) In addition to the information described in paragraph (1), if 
a payment under this section is made to a foreign state on or after 
January 1, 2016, the Secretary of the Treasury shall make available to 
the public in accordance with paragraph (1), the following information 
with regard to that payment:
            ``(A) A description of the method of payment.
            ``(B) A description of the currency denominations used for 
        the payment.
            ``(C) The name and location of each financial institution 
        owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a foreign state 
        or an agent of a foreign state through which the payment passed 
        or from which the payment was withdrawn, including any 
        financial institution owned or controlled, directly or 
        indirectly, by a foreign state or an agent of a foreign state 
        that is holding the payment as of the date on which the 
        information is made available.
    ``(3) For a payment made during the period beginning on January 1, 
2016, and ending on the date of enactment of this subsection, the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall make available to the public the 
information required under paragraphs (1) and (2) with regard to that 
payment not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
section.
    ``(4) In this subsection, the term `foreign state' has the meaning 
given the term in section 1603 of title 28.
    ``(e) No payment may be made under this section to a state sponsor 
of terrorism, as defined in section 1605A(h) of title 28.''.
    (b) Implementation.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall implement 
the amendment made by this section beginning not later than 60 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
