[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4757 Received in Senate (RDS)]

<DOC>
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4757


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 30, 2016

                                Received

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To expand the eligibility for headstones, markers, and medallions 
furnished by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for deceased individuals 
     who were awarded the Medal of Honor and are buried in private 
                  cemeteries, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR HEADSTONES, MARKERS, AND 
              MEDALLIONS FOR MEDAL OF HONOR RECIPIENTS.

    Section 2306(d) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5)(A) In carrying out this subsection with respect to a deceased 
individual described in subparagraph (C), the Secretary shall furnish, 
upon request, a headstone or marker under paragraph (1) or a medallion 
under paragraph (4) that signifies the deceased's status as a Medal of 
Honor recipient.
    ``(B) If the Secretary furnished a headstone, marker, or medallion 
under paragraph (1) or (4) for a deceased individual described in 
subparagraph (C) that does not signify the deceased's status as a Medal 
of Honor recipient, the Secretary shall, upon request, replace such 
headstone, marker, or medallion with a headstone, marker, or medallion, 
as the case may be, that so signifies the deceased's status as a Medal 
of Honor recipient.
    ``(C) A deceased individual described in this subparagraph is a 
deceased individual who--
            ``(i) served in the Armed Forces on or after April 6, 1917;
            ``(ii) is eligible for a headstone or marker furnished 
        under paragraph (1) or a medallion furnished under paragraph 
        (4) (or would be so eligible for such headstone, marker, or 
        medallion but for the date of the death of the individual); and
            ``(iii) was awarded the Medal of Honor (including 
        posthumously).''.

SEC. 2. EXPANSION OF PRESIDENTIAL MEMORIAL CERTIFICATE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 112(a) of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``veterans,'' and all that follows through 
``service,'' and inserting the following: ``persons eligible for burial 
in a national cemetery by reason of any of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), or 
(7) of section 2402(a) of this title,''.
    (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
with respect to the death of a person eligible for burial in a national 
cemetery by reason of paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (7) of section 
2402(a) of title 38, United States Code, occurring before, on, or after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

            Passed the House of Representatives November 29, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
