[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6037 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6037

   To amend the Peace Corps Act to expand services and benefits for 
                  volunteers, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 15, 2016

 Mr. Poe of Texas (for himself and Mr. Farr) introduced the following 
 bill; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
  addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Peace Corps Act to expand services and benefits for 
                  volunteers, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sam Farr Peace Corps Enhancement 
Act''.

SEC. 2. PROVISIONS FOR CURRENT AND FORMER VOLUNTEERS OF THE PEACE 
              CORPS.

    (a) Enhanced Compensation Benefits.--
            (1) In general.--Section 8142 of title 5, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``GS-7'' 
                        and inserting ``GS-11''; and
                            (ii) by striking paragraph (2) and 
                        redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as 
                        paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(d)(1) The Director of the Peace Corps shall provide the initial 
furnishing of medical and other benefits under section 8103(b) of this 
title to any former volunteer for the 180-day period beginning on the 
date of termination of the service of such volunteer, to the extent 
that the Director determines that such benefits are given with respect 
to an injury that is probably compensable under this section (as such 
term is defined for purposes of section 8103(b)). The provision of such 
benefits may be authorized directly or by the certification of 
vouchers, in accordance with section 8103(b).
    ``(2) A volunteer may not be provided medical or other benefits 
pursuant to paragraph (1) unless the injury with respect to which such 
benefits would be provided was proximately caused by the employment of 
such volunteer under subsection (c)(2).
    ``(3) Notwithstanding the 180-day limitation period under paragraph 
(1), a volunteer may receive medical or other benefits provided 
pursuant to such paragraph with respect to an injury until the date on 
which the Secretary of Labor makes a final determination with respect 
to compensation for such injury under this section, if the volunteer 
applied for such compensation before the last day of such limitation 
period.
    ``(4) The Director shall require any employee of the Peace Corps 
who provides health care to former volunteers under this subsection to 
consult with health experts outside the Peace Corps, including experts 
in mental health, in order to provide the best standard of care.''.
            (2) Applicability.--The amendments made by paragraph (1)(A) 
        shall apply with respect to any compensation paid pursuant to 
        section 8142 of title 5, United States Code, on or after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Health Care for Volunteers; Criminal Liability for Acts Against 
Volunteers.--Section 5 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2504) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (e), by striking ``receive such 
        immunization and dental care preparatory to their service'' and 
        inserting ``receive, preparatory to their service, such 
        immunization and dental care, and (in accordance with 
        subsection (o)) such trial prescriptions'';
            (2) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) by striking ``section, and'' and inserting 
                ``section),''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``, and paragraph (3)(A)(i) of section 3502 
                of title 44, United States Code, with respect to the 
                collection of information under subchapter I of chapter 
                35 of such title by the Inspector General of the Peace 
                Corps''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(o) The Director of the Peace Corps may only prescribe mefloquine 
to a volunteer, including as a trial prescription to a volunteer who 
chooses to use such medication before such volunteer travels to a post, 
on an individual basis and in accordance with relevant recommendations 
or guidelines issued by the Director of the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention or the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, after counseling 
such volunteer about the benefits, risks, and side effects of each 
available medication for the prophylaxis of malaria. The Director shall 
monitor the volunteer during the course of such prescription for the 
development of any side effects, evaluate the volunteer at the 
completion of such course for evidence of neuropsychiatric symptoms, 
and report to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention and the Commissioner of Food and Drugs any such side effects 
or symptoms. A volunteer may only switch to the use of mefloquine from 
another drug for the prophylaxis of malaria while serving at a post if 
another medication for the prophylaxis of malaria is simultaneously 
provided to such volunteer in a manner that ensures continuous 
protection against malaria.
    ``(p) It is the policy of the United States to recognize the 
importance of Peace Corps volunteers and the core function that such 
volunteers play within the agency. The President should therefore 
prioritize the provision of health care services and necessary safety 
and security support for all volunteers.
    ``(q)(1) Whoever engages in conduct outside the United States 
against a volunteer that would constitute an offense under any section 
listed in paragraph (2) if the conduct had been engaged in within the 
special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States (as 
defined in section 7 of title 18, United States Code) shall be punished 
as provided for that offense.
    ``(2) The sections listed in this paragraph are sections 113, 1111, 
1112, 1113, 1117 (to the extent that such section applies to section 
1111), 1201, 2241, 2242, 2244, and 2261A of title 18, United States 
Code.
    ``(3) For purposes of this subsection, paragraph (9)(B) (regarding 
residences in foreign States) of section 7 of title 18, United States 
Code, shall include the residences used by volunteers in foreign States 
and the land appurtenant or ancillary thereto, irrespective of 
ownership.''.

SEC. 3. PROVISIONS REGARDING EMPLOYEES OF THE PEACE CORPS.

    Section 7 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2506) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``or paragraph 
                (8)'' after ``paragraph (6)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(8)(A) The Director of the Peace Corps may designate a position 
as a `critical management support position' if the position requires 
specialized technical or professional skills and knowledge of Peace 
Corps operations, such as positions that involve volunteer health 
services, financial management, information technology, procurement, 
personnel, legal services, or security.
    ``(B) Notwithstanding any limitation set forth in paragraph (2) and 
subject to subparagraph (C), an appointment or assignment to a critical 
management support position designated under subparagraph (A) of this 
paragraph or an extension of such appointment or assignment shall be 
for a term of not more than five years.
    ``(C) The Director shall ensure that any decision regarding an 
appointment, assignment, or extension of such appointment or assignment 
to a critical management support position shall be consistent with 
Peace Corps policies and based on operational and programmatic 
factors.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1)(A) The President shall ensure that each overseas post has 
the services of a medical office to provide health care to volunteers, 
consistent in size and scope with the needs of the Peace Corps at such 
post, including, if necessary, by detailing to any such post the 
licensed medical staff of other United States departments, agencies, or 
establishments.
    ``(B) An individual may be hired as a Peace Corps Medical Officer 
after consideration of the following criteria:
            ``(i) Medical training, experience, accreditations, and 
        other qualifications.
            ``(ii) Administrative capabilities.
            ``(iii) Understanding of the local language and culture.
            ``(iv) Ability to work in the English language.
            ``(v) Interpersonal skills.
            ``(vi) Record of performance.
            ``(vii) Any other factors the Director of the Peace Corps 
        determines appropriate.
    ``(2) The Director of the Peace Corps shall ensure that each Peace 
Corps Medical Officer serving in a malaria-endemic country receives 
training in the recognition of the side effects caused by the use of 
mefloquine and the data supporting the patient information handouts 
required by the Food and Drug Administration regarding mefloquine, 
including the potential capacity of the drug to cause permanent 
neuropsychiatric effects.''.

SEC. 4. MONITORING TRAINING RECORDS.

    Section 8 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2507) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) The President shall implement procedures to maintain a 
written record verifying the attendance of each individual completing 
training provided to meet each requirement in this section and sections 
8A, 8B, and 8F.''.

SEC. 5. ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES TO APPLICANTS FOR ENROLLMENT AS 
              VOLUNTEERS.

    Subsection (d) of section 8A of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 
2507a(d)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Information Regarding Crimes and Risks.--Each applicant for 
enrollment as a volunteer shall be provided, with respect to the 
country in which the applicant has been invited to serve, with 
information regarding crimes against and risks to volunteers, including 
an overview of past crimes against volunteers in such country, the 
current early termination rate of volunteers serving in such country, 
any health risks prevalent in such country, and the level of 
satisfaction reported by volunteers serving in such country. Upon 
receiving such information, the applicant shall have the option to 
timely decline the invitation without retaliation and with priority to 
be invited to serve in a different country.''.

SEC. 6. OFFICE OF VICTIM ADVOCACY.

    Section 8C of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2507c) is amended by 
striking subsection (e).

SEC. 7. REFORM AND EXTENSION OF THE SEXUAL ASSAULT ADVISORY COUNCIL.

    Section 8D of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2507d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``not less than 8 individuals'' and 
                inserting ``not fewer than 8 and not more than 14 
                individuals'';
                    (B) by inserting after the first sentence the 
                following new sentence: ``At least one member shall 
                also have expertise in the field of mental health.''; 
                and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                sentence: ``There shall be no limit to the number of 
                terms an individual may serve as a member of the 
                Council.'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and the implementation of such 
                policy'' after ``section 8B''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                sentence: ``To carry out the functions in this 
                subsection, the Council shall have access, including to 
                interview or visit, to volunteers and staff in the 
                field, to volunteer surveys under section 8E, and to 
                all data collected from restricted reporting, except 
                that the Council may not have access to any personally 
                identifying information associated with such surveys or 
                data.''; and
            (3) in subsection (g), by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
        ``2023''.

SEC. 8. PUBLICATION REQUIREMENT FOR VOLUNTEER SURVEYS.

    Section 8E of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2507e) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by inserting after the first 
        sentence the following new sentence: ``The President shall 
        ensure that each performance plan under this subsection for a 
        Peace Corps representative includes a consideration of the 
        results, with respect to such representative and the country of 
        service of such representative, of each survey under subsection 
        (c).''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``2018'' in the first sentence and 
                inserting ``2023''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                sentences: ``The President shall publish on a publicly 
                available website of the Peace Corps the results of 
                each survey related to volunteer satisfaction in each 
                country in which volunteers serve, and the early 
                termination rate of volunteers serving in each such 
                country. The information published shall be posted in 
                an easily accessible place near the description of the 
                appropriate country and shall be written in an easily 
                understood manner.''.

SEC. 9. CONFIDENTIAL ACCESS TO THE SEXUAL ASSAULT ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR 
              VOLUNTEERS.

    Section 8G of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2507g) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Confidential Access.--
            ``(1) Confidential advisory council email.--The Sexual 
        Assault Advisory Council established under section 8D shall 
        establish an email address to permit volunteers (including 
        former volunteers) to communicate directly and confidentially 
        with such Council. No employee of the Peace Corps may access or 
        monitor the email received by or sent from such address.
            ``(2) Use of confidential email for case review.--Any 
        volunteer may write to the email address established under 
        paragraph (1) to request such Council to--
                    ``(A) review the manner in which the Peace Corps 
                handled a case of such volunteer relating to sexual 
                assault; and
                    ``(B) determine whether the Peace Corps acted in 
                accordance with all relevant policies.
            ``(3) Notification.--The Director shall ensure that every 
        volunteer and former volunteer is notified of the confidential 
        email address established under paragraph (1).''.

SEC. 10. EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS FOR THE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Section 13 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2512) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Section'' and 
        inserting ``section''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) An expert, consultant, or organization thereof employed 
pursuant to subsection (a) by the Inspector General of the Peace Corps 
may be compensated without regard to the daily equivalent of the 
highest rate payable under section 5332 of title 5, United States 
Code.''.
                                 <all>
