[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 953 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 953

   To facilitate certain pinyon-juniper related projects in Lincoln 
County, Nevada, to modify the boundaries of certain wilderness areas in 
    the State of Nevada, and to provide for the implementation of a 
            conservation plan for the Virgin River, Nevada.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 15, 2015

 Mr. Heller (for himself and Mr. Reid) introduced the following bill; 
   which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To facilitate certain pinyon-juniper related projects in Lincoln 
County, Nevada, to modify the boundaries of certain wilderness areas in 
    the State of Nevada, and to provide for the implementation of a 
            conservation plan for the Virgin River, Nevada.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Eastern Nevada Land Implementation 
Improvement Act''.

SEC. 2. FACILITATION OF PINYON-JUNIPER RELATED PROJECTS IN LINCOLN 
              COUNTY, NEVADA.

    (a) Facilitation of Pinyon-Juniper Related Projects.--
            (1) Availability of special account under lincoln county 
        land act of 2000.--Section 5(b) of the Lincoln County Land Act 
        of 2000 (Public Law 106-298; 114 Stat. 1048) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``and 
                        implementation'' after ``development''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C)--
                                    (I) in clause (i), by striking ``; 
                                and'' at the end and inserting a 
                                semicolon; and
                                    (II) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
                            ``(iii) development and implementation of 
                        comprehensive, cost-effective, and 
                        multijurisdictional hazardous fuels reduction 
                        projects and wildfire prevention planning 
                        (particularly for pinyon-juniper dominated 
                        landscapes) and other rangeland and woodland 
                        restoration projects within the County, 
                        consistent with the Ely Resource Management 
                        Plan and subject to approval by the Secretary; 
                        and''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Waiver of fees.--Processing of applications for 
        rights-of-way submitted by local or regional governments within 
        the County necessary to deliver government-provided services to 
        land conveyed pursuant to this Act shall not require payment of 
        cost-recovery fees or payment of contributed funds.
            ``(4) Cooperative agreements.--Establishment of cooperative 
        agreements between the Bureau of Land Management and the County 
        shall be required for County-provided law enforcement and 
        planning related activities regarding--
                    ``(A) wilderness in the County designated by the 
                Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and 
                Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-424; 118 Stat. 
                2403);
                    ``(B) cultural resources identified, protected, and 
                managed pursuant to that Act;
                    ``(C) planning, management, and law enforcement 
                associated with the Silver State OHV Trail designated 
                by that Act; and
                    ``(D) planning associated with land disposal and 
                related land use authorizations required for utility 
                corridors and rights-of-way to serve land that has 
                been, or is to be, disposed of pursuant to that Act and 
                this Act.''.
            (2) Availability of special account under lincoln county 
        conservation, recreation, and development act of 2004.--Section 
        103 of the Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and 
        Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-424; 118 Stat. 2406) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``; 
                        and'' at the end and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (F), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) development and implementation of 
                comprehensive, cost-effective, and multijurisdictional 
                hazardous fuels reduction and wildfire prevention 
                planning (particularly for pinyon-juniper dominated 
                landscapes) and other rangeland and woodland 
                restoration projects within the County, consistent with 
                the Ely Resource Management Plan and subject to 
                approval by the Secretary.''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Waiver of Fees.--Processing of applications for rights-of-way 
submitted by local or regional governments within the County necessary 
to deliver government-provided services to land conveyed pursuant to 
this Act shall not require payment of cost-recovery fees or payment of 
contributed funds.
    ``(e) Cooperative Agreements.--Establishment of cooperative 
agreements between the Bureau of Land Management and the County shall 
be required for County-provided law enforcement and planning related 
activities regarding--
            ``(1) wilderness in the County designated by this Act;
            ``(2) cultural resources identified, protected, and managed 
        pursuant to this Act;
            ``(3) planning, management, and law enforcement associated 
        with the Silver State OHV Trail designated by this Act; and
            ``(4) planning associated with land disposal and related 
        land use authorizations required for utility corridors and 
        rights-of-way to serve land that has been, or is to be, 
        disposed of pursuant to this Act and the Lincoln County Land 
        Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-298; 114 Stat. 1046).''.
    (b) Disposition of Proceeds.--
            (1) Disposition of proceeds under lincoln county land act 
        of 2000.--Section 5(a)(2) of the Lincoln County Land Act of 
        2000 (Public Law 106-298; 114 Stat. 1047) is amended by 
        inserting ``and the Lincoln County Regional Development 
        Authority or any other County economic development 
        organization'' after ``schools''.
            (2) Disposition of proceeds under lincoln county 
        conservation, recreation, and development act of 2004.--Section 
        103(b)(2) of the Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and 
        Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-424; 118 Stat. 2405) is 
        amended by striking ``and transportation'' and inserting 
        ``transportation, and the Lincoln County Regional Development 
        Authority or any other County economic development 
        organization''.
    (c) Certain Land in Utility Corridor Not Withdrawn.--Section 301(c) 
of the Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 
2004 (Public Law 108-424; 118 Stat. 2413) is amended in the matter 
preceding paragraph (1) by inserting ``(other than land in the corridor 
located in sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, and 15, T. 7 N., 
R. 68 E.)'' after ``subsection (a)''.

SEC. 3. MT. MORIAH WILDERNESS, HIGH SCHELLS WILDERNESS, AND ARC DOME 
              WILDERNESS BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS.

    (a) Amendments to the Pam White Wilderness Act.--Section 323 of the 
Pam White Wilderness Act of 2006 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 109-
432; 120 Stat. 3031) is amended by striking subsection (e) and 
inserting the following:
    ``(e) Mt. Moriah Wilderness Adjustment.--The boundary of the Mt. 
Moriah Wilderness established under section 2(13) of the Nevada 
Wilderness Protection Act of 1989 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 101-
195) is adjusted to include--
            ``(1) the land identified as the `Mount Moriah Wilderness 
        Area' and `Mount Moriah Additions' on the map entitled `Eastern 
        White Pine County' and dated November 29, 2006; and
            ``(2) the land identified as `NFS Lands' on the map 
        entitled `Proposed Wilderness Boundary Adjustment Mt. Moriah 
        Wilderness Area' and dated June 18, 2014.
    ``(f) High Schells Wilderness Adjustment.--The boundary of the High 
Schells Wilderness established under subsection (a)(11) is adjusted to 
include the land identified as `Include as Wilderness' on the map 
entitled `McCoy Creek Adjustment' and dated November 3, 2014, and to 
exclude the land identified as `NFS Lands' on the map entitled 
`Proposed Wilderness Boundary Adjustment High Schells Wilderness Area' 
and dated June 17, 2014.''.
    (b) Amendments to the Nevada Wilderness Protection Act of 1989.--
The Nevada Wilderness Protection Act of 1989 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 
Public Law 101-195; 103 Stat. 1784) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 12. ARC DOME BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    ``The boundary of the Arc Dome Wilderness established under section 
2(2) is adjusted to exclude the land identified as `Exclude from 
Wilderness' on the map entitled `Arc Dome Adjustment' and dated 
November 3, 2014.''.

SEC. 4. IMPLEMENTATION OF CONSERVATION PLAN, VIRGIN RIVER, NEVADA.

    Section 3(d)(3)(B) of Public Law 99-548 (100 Stat. 3061; 116 Stat. 
2018) is amended by striking ``development of a multispecies habitat 
conservation plan for'' and inserting ``development and implementation 
of a conservation plan to benefit fish and wildlife species of''.
                                 <all>
