[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5005 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5005

  To prohibit the hiring of additional employees of any office of the 
legislative branch until the Speaker of the House of Representatives or 
 the President pro tempore of the Senate certifies that no employee of 
            the office has a seriously delinquent tax debt.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 20, 2016

  Mr. Blumenauer (for himself and Mr. Hanna) introduced the following 
   bill; which was referred to the Committee on House Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To prohibit the hiring of additional employees of any office of the 
legislative branch until the Speaker of the House of Representatives or 
 the President pro tempore of the Senate certifies that no employee of 
            the office has a seriously delinquent tax debt.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``No Hires for the Delinquent Congress 
Act''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON HIRING OF NEW EMPLOYEES BY LEGISLATIVE BRANCH 
              OFFICES UNTIL CERTIFICATION THAT NO EMPLOYEE OF THE 
              OFFICE HAS A SERIOUSLY DELINQUENT TAX DEBT.

    (a) Prohibition on Hiring.--No office of the legislative branch may 
extend an offer of employment to any individual until after the 
applicable certifying official has submitted to Congress either the 
certification described in subsection (b) or the report described in 
subsection (c).
    (b) Certification.--With respect to an office of the legislative 
branch, the certification referred to in subsection (a) is a written 
certification that the office does not employ any individual who has a 
seriously delinquent tax debt (as defined in section 2(b)(2)).
    (c) Report.--With respect to an office of the legislative branch, 
the report referred to in subsection (a) is a report that--
            (1) states that the certification described in subsection 
        (b) cannot be made;
            (2) provides an explanation of why such certification is 
        not possible;
            (3) outlines the remedial actions that would be required 
        for the applicable certifying official to be in a position to 
        so certify; and
            (4) provides an indication of the time that would be 
        required for those actions to be completed.
    (d) Applicable Certifying Official Defined.--In this section, the 
``applicable certifying official'' with respect to an office of the 
legislative branch means--
            (1) in the case of an office of the House of 
        Representatives, the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
            (2) in the case of an office of the Senate, the President 
        pro tempore of the Senate; and
            (3) in the case of any other office, the Speaker and the 
        President pro tempore acting jointly.
    (e) Seriously Delinquent Tax Debt Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``seriously delinquent tax debt'' means an outstanding debt under 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for which a notice of lien has been 
filed in public records pursuant to section 6323 of such Code, except 
that such term does not include--
            (1) a debt that is being paid in a timely manner pursuant 
        to an agreement under section 6159 or section 7122 of such 
        Code;
            (2) a debt with respect to which a collection due process 
        hearing under section 6330 of such Code, or relief under 
        subsection (a), (b), or (f) of section 6015 of such Code, is 
        requested or pending;
            (3) a debt with respect to which a levy has been made under 
        section 6331 of such Code (or a debt with respect to which the 
        individual agrees to be subject to a levy made under such 
        section); and
            (4) a debt with respect to which relief under section 
        6343(a)(1)(D) of such Code is granted.
                                 <all>
