[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4849 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4849

    To amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 to reform the work 
 requirements for able-bodied adults without dependents; and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 23, 2016

  Mr. Chabot introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                        Committee on Agriculture

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To amend the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 to reform the work 
 requirements for able-bodied adults without dependents; and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Food and Nutrition Reform, 
Responsibility, and Accountability Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. ENHANCED WORK REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN ADULTS.

    Section 6(o) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2015) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2) by striking ``3 months (consecutive or 
        otherwise)'' and inserting ``1 month'', and
            (2) in paragraph (6)(A)(ii)(IV) by striking ``3 months'' 
        and inserting ``1 month''.

SEC. 3. AGE MODIFICATION OF EXEMPTION FROM WORK REQUIREMENT.

    Section 6(o)(3)(A) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 
2015(o)(3)(A)) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(A)(i) is less than 18 years of age;
                    ``(ii) is more than 50 years of age in a household 
                that includes an individual less than 18 years of age; 
                or
                    ``(iii) is more than 63 years of age;''.

SEC. 4. TERMINATION OF STATE WAIVER AUTHORITY.

    Section 6(o)(4) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 
2015(o)(4)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Termination.--Subparagraph (A) shall not 
                apply with respect to any fiscal year that begins after 
                the effective date of this subparagraph.''.

SEC. 5. REDUCTION IN STATE EXEMPTION AUTHORITY.

    Section 6(o)(6) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 
2015(o)(6)) is amended--
            (1) in the heading by striking ``15-percent'' and inserting 
        ``5-percent'', and
            (2) in subparagraph (D) by striking ``15 percent'' and 
        inserting ``5 percent''.

SEC. 6. EXPUNGEMENT OF UNUSED SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
              BENEFITS.

    Section 11 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2020), 
as amended by section 4015, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(w) Expungement of Unused Beneftis.--The State agency shall 
expunge from the EBT account of the household benefits that are not 
used before the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on the date 
such benefits are posted to such account.''.

SEC. 7. EXPUNGEMENT OF DORMANT SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE 
              ACCOUNTS.

    Section 11 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2020), 
as amended by section 4015, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(w) Expungement of Benefits in Dormant EBT Account.--The State 
agency shall expunge from an EBT account that has not been accessed for 
a 3-month period all of the benefits that are posted to such account 
during such period.''.

SEC. 8. STATE WORKFARE PROGRAM REQUIREMENT FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE 
              SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    Section 20(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 
2029(a)) is amended by inserting ``for not less than 6 hours per week'' 
after ``perform work,'' the second place it appears.

SEC. 9. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on 
the first day of the first month that begins more than 1 year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
