[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 771 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 123
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 771

                          [Report No. 114-611]

      Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5325) making 
 appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 8, 2016

   Mr. Woodall, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
      Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5325) making 
 appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5325) making appropriations 
for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2017, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. After general 
debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI 
are waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in order except those 
printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the order 
printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in 
the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the 
time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall 
not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or 
in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill 
for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit 
with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  During consideration of H.R. 5325 pursuant to this 
resolution, section 3304 of Senate Concurrent Resolution 11 shall not 
apply.
                                                 House Calendar No. 123

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 771

                          [Report No. 114-611]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

      Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5325) making 
 appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              June 8, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
