[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5499 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5499

 To require the appropriation of funds to use a fee, fine, penalty, or 
proceeds from a settlement received by a Federal agency, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 16, 2016

Mr. Palmer (for himself, Mr. Babin, Mr. Barr, Mr. Benishek, Mr. Bishop 
 of Michigan, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Buck, Mr. 
  Byrne, Mr. Chabot, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Jody B. 
 Hice of Georgia, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Jordan, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Loudermilk, 
 Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Sanford, Mr. Scalise, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, 
Mr. Sessions, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
Weber of Texas, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Walker, Mr. Meadows, Mrs. Ellmers of 
 North Carolina, Mr. Williams, Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. Smith of Texas, 
     Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. 
  DesJarlais, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Cole, Mrs. Love, Mr. Flores, Mr. 
 Chaffetz, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, 
Mr. Stutzman, Mr. Perry, Mr. Huelskamp, Mr. Griffith, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. 
 Gosar, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Allen, 
Mr. Mulvaney, Mr. Garrett, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Blum, Mr. 
  Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Nunes, Mr. Webster of 
  Florida, Mr. Mullin, and Mr. Messer) introduced the following bill; 
which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
  and in addition to the Committees on the Judiciary, the Budget, and 
 Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the appropriation of funds to use a fee, fine, penalty, or 
proceeds from a settlement received by a Federal agency, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Agency Accountability Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS REQUIRED.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an 
agency that receives a fee, fine, penalty, or proceeds from a 
settlement shall deposit such amount in the general fund of the 
Treasury.
    (b) Use of Amounts.--
            (1) Subject to appropriation.--Consistent with paragraph 
        (2), any amounts deposited pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
        only be available to the extent, and in such amounts, as are 
        provided in advance in appropriation Acts.
            (2) Obligation limitation; deficit reduction.--Of the 
        amounts so deposited during the fiscal year in which this 
        section is enacted, such amounts--
                    (A) may not be available for obligation during such 
                fiscal year; and
                    (B) shall be used for purposes of deficit 
                reduction.
    (c) USPTO Report to Congress Required.--Not later than March 1 of 
each year, the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property 
and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office shall 
submit to Congress a report that describes any fee, fine, penalty, or 
proceeds from a settlement collected by the United States Patent and 
Trademark Office for the previous fiscal year.
    (d) Agency Defined.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given that 
term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code, but does not 
include the United States Postal Service or the United States Patent 
and Trademark Office.

SEC. 3. OFFSETTING COLLECTIONS AND RECEIPTS AS REVENUE.

    (a) In General.--The Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621 
et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 3(2)(A)(iv), by inserting ``except as 
        provided in section 316,'' before ``offsetting receipts''; and
            (2) by adding after section 315 the following:

           ``treatment of offsetting collections and receipts

    ``Sec. 316. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, offsetting 
receipts and collections shall be treated as revenue for purposes of 
carrying out this or any other Act. The preceding sentence shall not 
apply to the United States Postal Service or the United States Patent 
and Trademark Office.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of such Act is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 315 the 
following:

``316. Treatment of offsetting collections and receipts.''.
    (c) Application.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
during budget years (as that term is defined in section 250(c)(12) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
900(c)(12))) beginning in 2018.
                                 <all>
