[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 338 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 45
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 338

                          [Report No. 114-179]

   Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the House 
amendment to the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 1295) to extend the 
     African Growth and Opportunity Act, the Generalized System of 
Preferences, the preferential duty treatment program for Haiti, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 24, 2015

   Mr. Sessions, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the House 
amendment to the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 1295) to extend the 
     African Growth and Opportunity Act, the Generalized System of 
Preferences, the preferential duty treatment program for Haiti, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 1295) to extend 
the African Growth and Opportunity Act, the Generalized System of 
Preferences, the preferential duty treatment program for Haiti, and for 
other purposes, with the Senate amendment to the House amendment to the 
Senate amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without 
intervention of any point of order, a motion offered by the chair of 
the Committee on Ways and Means or his designee that the House concur 
in the Senate amendment to the House amendment to the Senate amendment. 
The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The 
motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
motion to adoption without intervening motion.
                                                  House Calendar No. 45

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 338

                          [Report No. 114-179]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

   Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the House 
amendment to the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 1295) to extend the 
     African Growth and Opportunity Act, the Generalized System of 
Preferences, the preferential duty treatment program for Haiti, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 24, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
