[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1451 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1451

To provide for the land exchange involving Navy Outlying Landing Field 
                  Site 8 in Escambia County, Florida.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 18, 2015

Mr. Miller of Florida introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                   to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the land exchange involving Navy Outlying Landing Field 
                  Site 8 in Escambia County, Florida.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND EXCHANGE, NAVY OUTLYING LANDING FIELD, NAVAL AIR 
              STATION, WHITING FIELD, FLORIDA.

    (a) Land Exchange Authorized.--The Secretary of the Navy (in this 
section referred to as the ``Secretary'') may convey to Escambia 
County, Florida (in this section referred to as the ``County''), all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of 
real property, including any improvements thereon, containing Navy 
Outlying Landing Field Site 8 in Escambia County associated with Naval 
Air Station, Whiting Field, Milton, Florida.
    (b) Land To Be Acquired.--In exchange for the property described in 
subsection (a), the County shall convey to the Secretary land and 
improvements thereon in Santa Rosa County, Florida, that is acceptable 
to the Secretary and suitable for use as a Navy outlying landing field 
to replace Navy Outlying Landing Field Site 8.
    (c) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
            (1) Payment required.--The Secretary shall require the 
        County to fund costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to 
        reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by the 
        Secretary, to carry out the land exchange under this section, 
        including survey costs, costs for environmental documentation, 
        other administrative costs related to the land exchange, and 
        all costs associated with relocation of activities and 
        facilities from Navy Outlying Landing Field Site 8 to the 
        replacement location. If amounts are collected from the County 
        in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the 
        amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the 
        Secretary to carry out the land exchange, the Secretary shall 
        refund the excess amount to the County.
            (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
        reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund 
        or account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the 
        Secretary in carrying out the land exchange. Amounts so 
        credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account, 
        and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to 
        the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or 
        account.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be exchanged under this section shall be 
determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (e) Land Exchange Agreement.--The exchange of real property under 
this section shall be accomplished using a quit claim deed or other 
legal instrument and upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to 
the Secretary and the County, including such additional terms and 
conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.
                                 <all>
