[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5636 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 527
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5636

                          [Report No. 114-679]

To increase the effectiveness of and accountability for maintaining the 
    physical security of NIST facilities and the safety of the NIST 
                               workforce.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              July 6, 2016

  Mr. Loudermilk (for himself, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. 
Posey, and Mr. Babin) introduced the following bill; which was referred 
           to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology

                             July 11, 2016

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To increase the effectiveness of and accountability for maintaining the 
    physical security of NIST facilities and the safety of the NIST 
                               workforce.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Institute of Standards and 
Technology Campus Security Act''.

SEC. 2. NIST CAMPUS SECURITY.

    (a) Supervisory Authority.--The Department of Commerce Office of 
Security shall directly manage the law enforcement and security 
programs of the National Institute of Standards and Technology through 
an assigned Director of Security for the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology. This subsection shall be carried out without 
increasing the number of full time equivalent employees of the 
Department of Commerce, including the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology.
    (b) Reports.--Such Director of Security shall provide an activities 
and security report on a quarterly basis for the first year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, and on an annual basis thereafter, to 
the Under Secretary for Standards and Technology and to the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
    (c) Comptroller General Report.--Not later than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a 
report to the Secretary of Commerce, and to the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation in the Senate, that--
            (1) evaluates the costs and performance of the National 
        Institute of Standards and Technology Police Services Group;
            (2) compares the total costs of that Police Services Group 
        with the estimated cost of private police contractors to 
        perform the same work;
            (3) examines any potential concerns with private police 
        contractors performing the duties of the Police Services Group;
            (4) makes recommendations, based on the findings under 
        paragraphs (2) and (3), for how the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology should spend its money on security 
        without diminishing the security on its campuses;
            (5) proposes oversight and direction that the Police 
        Services Group or outside security contractors need to ensure 
        physical security at National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology campuses;
            (6) establishes the percentage of National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology personnel, including the Police 
        Services Group and outside security contractors, that follow 
        security policies, processes, and procedures applicable to 
        their responsibilities;
            (7) determines the number of known security breaches and 
        other similar incidents at National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology campuses involving National Institute of Standards 
        and Technology personnel and external parties from fiscal year 
        2012 to the date of the completion of this report, and their 
        impact and resolution; and
            (8) analyzes management, operational, and other challenges 
        encountered in the course of protecting National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology facilities and the extent to which 
        such challenges impact security, and includes assessment of the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology's attempts to 
        mitigate those challenges.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 527

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5636

                          [Report No. 114-679]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To increase the effectiveness of and accountability for maintaining the 
    physical security of NIST facilities and the safety of the NIST 
                               workforce.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 11, 2016

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
