[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1224 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1224

        To reconcile differing Federal approaches to condensate.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 6, 2015

 Ms. Murkowski introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
        To reconcile differing Federal approaches to condensate.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Condensate Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. DEVELOPMENT OF DEFINITION OF CONDENSATE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy (referred to in this Act 
as the ``Secretary'') shall--
            (1) develop a standard definition of the term 
        ``condensate''; and
            (2) advise relevant Federal agencies to adopt that 
        definition for the purpose of clarifying energy policy in the 
        United States.
    (b) Office of Fossil Energy Assessment.--The Assistant Secretary 
for Fossil Energy may assess the suitability of condensate separately 
from crude oil for use in strategic reserves, as determined necessary 
by the Secretary.
    (c) Energy Information Administration Data Collection.--The 
Administrator of the Energy Information Administration shall collect 
data regarding the chemical properties of condensate and crude oil 
produced in the United States.

SEC. 3. DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR ASSESSMENTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall direct the 
appropriate agencies within the Department of the Interior to assess 
condensate separately from crude oil, in accordance with this section.
    (b) Office of Natural Resources Revenue Data Collection.--The 
Director of the Office of Natural Resources Revenue may collect data 
regarding condensate separately from crude oil produced in the United 
States.
    (c) Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.--The Director of the Bureau 
of Ocean Energy Management may estimate condensate separately from 
crude oil as part of the resource assessments regarding geological 
formations in the United States.
    (d) United States Geological Survey.--The Director of the United 
States Geological Survey may include estimates of condensate separately 
from crude oil as part of the resource assessments regarding geological 
formations in the United States.

SEC. 4. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that processed condensate is a 
petroleum product.
                                 <all>
