[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 743 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 118
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 743

                          [Report No. 114-591]

      Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5055) making 
 appropriations for energy and water development and related agencies 
 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 23, 2016

   Mr. Newhouse, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
      Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5055) making 
 appropriations for energy and water development and related agencies 
 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That (a) at any time after adoption of this resolution 
the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the 
House resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of 
the Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5055) making 
appropriations for energy and water development and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes. 
The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. Points of order 
against provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of 
rule XXI are waived.
     (b) During consideration of the bill for amendment--
            (1) each amendment, other than amendments provided for in 
        paragraph (2), shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally 
        divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent;
            (2) no pro forma amendment shall be in order except that 
        the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
        Appropriations or their respective designees may offer up to 10 
        pro forma amendments each at any point for the purpose of 
        debate; and
            (3) the chair of the Committee of the Whole may accord 
        priority in recognition on the basis of whether the Member 
        offering an amendment has caused it to be printed in the 
        portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose 
        in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so printed shall be 
        considered as read.
    (c) When the committee rises and reports the bill back to the House 
with a recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit 
with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Section 508 of H.R. 5055 shall be considered to be a 
spending reduction account for purposes of section 3(d) of House 
Resolution 5.
    Sec. 3.  During consideration of H.R. 5055 pursuant to this 
resolution, section 3304 of Senate Concurrent Resolution 11 shall not 
apply.
                                                 House Calendar No. 118

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 743

                          [Report No. 114-591]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

      Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5055) making 
 appropriations for energy and water development and related agencies 
 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 23, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
