[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2123 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2123

 To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish non-formulary 
drugs and medicines to veterans diagnosed with mental health disorders, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 30, 2015

Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Jones, Mrs. 
  Ellmers of North Carolina, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Tonko, Mr. 
 Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Crawford, Mr. Dold, Mr. Tom 
Price of Georgia, and Ms. Gabbard) introduced the following bill; which 
           was referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish non-formulary 
drugs and medicines to veterans diagnosed with mental health disorders, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Enhancing 
Veterans' Access to Treatment Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS FURNISHING OF NON-FORMULARY 
              DRUGS AND MEDICINES TO VETERANS WITH MENTAL HEALTH 
              DISORDERS.

    (a) Availability of Non-Formulary Drugs and Medicines.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of a veteran 
who is enrolled in the patient enrollment system under section 1705 of 
title 38, United States Code, who a duly licensed physician, including 
a Department of Defense physician, has determined is taking or has 
taken during the 90-day period preceding the date of such 
determination, a prescribed drug or medicine that has been effective in 
treating a mental health disorder with which the veteran has been 
diagnosed, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall take such steps as 
may be necessary to furnish such drug or medicine to such veteran if 
the prescription is ordered by a duly licensed physician, regardless of 
whether such drug or medicine is available under the formulary in use 
by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (b) VA Capacity To Dispense Certain Non-Formulary Drugs and 
Medicines.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall revise the 
prescription medication formulary of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
to ensure that all medications within the classes of antipsychotics and 
antidepressants that are prescribed by Department of Defense 
physicians, including such medications prescribed for the treatment of 
post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, schizophrenia, 
depression, and bipolar disorder, are available at all Department of 
Veterans Affairs pharmacies.
                                 <all>
