[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2055 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2055

 To direct the Secretary of Defense to submit to Congress a report on 
    certain equipment purchased from foreign entities that could be 
    manufactured in United States arsenals or depots, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 28, 2015

 Mrs. Bustos (for herself, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Loebsack, and Mr. Tonko) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                             Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Secretary of Defense to submit to Congress a report on 
    certain equipment purchased from foreign entities that could be 
    manufactured in United States arsenals or depots, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Make It At Home Act''.

SEC. 2. REPORT ON EQUIPMENT PURCHASED FROM FOREIGN ENTITIES THAT COULD 
              BE MANUFACTURED IN UNITED STATES ARSENALS OR DEPOTS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that it shall 
be the goal of the Secretary of Defense in conjunction with the 
Secretaries of the military services to ensure the management of the 
manufacturing workload of the military arsenals to maintain critical 
capabilities and ensure cost efficiency and technical competence in 
peacetime, while preserving the ability to provide an effective and 
timely response to mobilizations, national defense contingency 
situations and other emergent requirements.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
budget of the President for a fiscal year is submitted to Congress 
pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on the equipment, weapons, weapons systems, components, 
subcomponents, and end-items purchased from foreign entities and 
identify those items which could be manufactured in the military 
arsenals of the United States or the military depots of the United 
States to meet the goals of subsection (a) or section 2464 of title 10, 
United States Code, as well as a plan for moving that workload into the 
military arsenals or depots.
    (c) Elements of Report.--The report required by subsection (b) 
shall include each of the following:
            (1) An identification of items purchased by foreign 
        manufacturers--
                    (A) described in section 8302(a)(1) of title 41, 
                United States Code, and purchased from a foreign 
                manufacturer by reason of an exception under section 
                8302(a)(2)(A) or section 8302(a)(2)(B) of such title;
                    (B) described in section 2533b(a)(1) of title 10, 
                United States Code, and purchased from a foreign 
                manufacturer by reason of an exception under section 
                2533b(b); and
                    (C) described in section 2534(a) of such title and 
                purchased from a foreign manufacturer by reason of a 
                waiver exercised under paragraph (1), (2), (4), or (5) 
                of section 2534(d) of such title.
            (2) An assessment of the skills required to manufacture the 
        items identified in paragraph (1) and a comparison of those 
        skills with skills required to meet the critical capabilities 
        identified by the Army Report to Congress on Critical 
        Manufacturing Capabilities and Capacities dated August 2013 and 
        the core logistics capabilities identified by each military 
        service pursuant to section 2464 of title 10, United States 
        Code, as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) An identification of the tooling, equipment, and 
        facilities upgrades necessary for a military arsenal or depot 
        to perform the manufacturing workload identified under 
        paragraph (1).
            (4) An identification of workload identified in paragraph 
        (1) most appropriate for transfer to military arsenals or 
        depots to meet the goals of subsection (a) or the requirements 
        of section 2464 of title 10, United States Code.
            (5) A plan to transfer manufacturing workload identified in 
        paragraph (4) to the military arsenals or depots within a 
        stated time frame.
            (6) Such other information the Secretary considers 
        necessary for adherence to paragraphs (4) and (5).
            (7) An explanation of the rationale for continuing to sole-
        source manufacturing workload identified in paragraph (1) from 
        a foreign source rather than a military arsenal, depot, or 
        other organic facility.
                                 <all>
