[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 43 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. CON. RES. 43

Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds, the rotunda of the Capitol, 
   and Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center for official 
Congressional events surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis 
                     to the United States Capitol.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 28, 2015

 Mr. Barletta (for himself, Mrs. Miller of Michigan, and Mr. Brady of 
Pennsylvania) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was 
 referred to the Committee on House Administration, and in addition to 
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION


 
Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds, the rotunda of the Capitol, 
   and Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center for official 
Congressional events surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis 
                     to the United States Capitol.

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring),

SECTION 1. AUTHORIZATION OF USE OF CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR EVENTS 
              SURROUNDING VISIT OF HIS HOLINESS POPE FRANCIS TO UNITED 
              STATES CAPITOL.

    (a) Authorization of Use of Capitol Grounds.--The Capitol Grounds 
may be used for official Congressional events surrounding the visit of 
His Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol on Thursday, 
September 24, 2015, or on such other dates as the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate may jointly designate.
    (b) Responsibilities of Capitol Police Board.--The Capitol Police 
Board shall take such actions as may be necessary to enforce the 
restrictions applicable to the Capitol Grounds in connection with the 
events authorized by this section.
    (c) Event Preparations.--The Architect of the Capitol is authorized 
to erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, sound amplification 
devices, and other related structures and equipment as may be required 
for the events authorized by this section.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF USE OF ROTUNDA FOR EVENTS SURROUNDING VISIT OF 
              HIS HOLINESS POPE FRANCIS TO UNITED STATES CAPITOL.

    The rotunda of the United States Capitol is authorized to be used 
for ceremonies and activities surrounding the visit of His Holiness 
Pope Francis to the United States Capitol on September 24, 2015, or on 
such other dates as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may jointly 
designate. Physical preparations for the conduct of such ceremonies and 
activities shall be carried out in accordance with such conditions as 
the Architect of the Capitol may prescribe.

SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF USE OF EMANCIPATION HALL FOR EVENTS 
              SURROUNDING VISIT OF HIS HOLINESS POPE FRANCIS TO UNITED 
              STATES CAPITOL.

    Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center is authorized to be 
used for ceremonies and activities surrounding the visit of His 
Holiness Pope Francis to the United States Capitol on September 24, 
2015, or on such other dates as the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate may jointly designate. Physical preparations for the conduct of 
such ceremonies and activities shall be carried out in accordance with 
such conditions as the Architect of the Capitol may prescribe.

SEC. 4. ARRANGEMENTS WITH OTHER DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.

    In carrying out their duties under this concurrent resolution, the 
Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board are each 
authorized to utilize appropriate equipment and services of appropriate 
personnel of departments and agencies of the Federal Government, under 
such arrangements as each may enter into with the heads of those 
departments and agencies in connection with the ceremonies and 
activities surrounding the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the 
United States Capitol.
                                 <all>
