[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2260 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2260

   To amend the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to require that the 
  Congressional Budget Office prepare long-term scoring estimates for 
   reported bills and joint resolutions that could have significant 
   economic and fiscal effects outside of the normal scoring periods.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            November 9, 2015

 Mr. Warner (for himself and Mr. Crapo) introduced the following bill; 
    which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the Budget

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to require that the 
  Congressional Budget Office prepare long-term scoring estimates for 
   reported bills and joint resolutions that could have significant 
   economic and fiscal effects outside of the normal scoring periods.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Long-Term Studies of Comprehensive 
Outcomes and Returns for the Economy Act'' or the ``Long-Term SCORE 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
        estimates that 133,000,000 people in the United States live 
        with at least one chronic condition.
            (2) More than 3 of every 4 health care dollars spent in the 
        United States derive from the care of chronic medical 
        conditions.
            (3) Such conditions include diabetes, cardiovascular 
        disease, cancer, obesity, arthritis, and Alzheimers.
            (4) Reports from the Trust for America's Health, the 
        Campaign to End Obesity, and other organizations demonstrate 
        that Federal policies which lead to reductions in the 
        prevalence of one or more chronic diseases may save United 
        States taxpayers as much as $611,000,000,000 over the next 20 
        years, and more in years beyond that time window.
            (5) The Congressional Budget Office, which estimates the 
        cost of Federal policies, typically provides Congress with 
        budgetary impact analyses for a five-year or ten-year period.
            (6) Longer-term budgetary impacts fall beyond the 
        traditional Congressional Budget Office budget window and 
        therefore are not captured in congressional determinations of 
        policies that reflect strategic investments in chronic disease 
        prevention and treatment, and similar long-term policies.
            (7) The Congressional Budget Office has produced some long-
        term budget analysis, assessing the budgetary impact of certain 
        programs for a period of as much as 75 years.
            (8) The Congressional Budget Office presently lacks 
        adequate resources to conduct more regular long-term economic 
        analyses.
            (9) Congress and taxpayers will benefit from having such 
        analyses more regularly available to steward Federal dollars 
        into the most effective policies and programs, particularly 
        those that will generate long-term budgetary savings.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to require that the 
Congressional Budget Office prepare long-term scoring estimates for 
reported bills and joint resolutions that could have significant 
economic and fiscal effects outside of the normal scoring periods.

SEC. 3. LONG-TERM COST ANALYSES OF LEGISLATION BY CBO.

    Section 402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 653) 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) Cost Estimates.--'' after ``Sec. 
        402.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Long-Term Cost Estimates.--Whenever the Director of the 
Congressional Budget Office prepares an analysis of the costs of a bill 
or resolution under subsection (a), and upon the request of any Member 
of the Senate or the House of Representatives, the Director shall 
prepare and submit to the committee reporting the bill or resolution 
the information required under paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of 
subsection (a), except that such information shall be for, if 
practicable, at least each of the next 4 10-fiscal-year periods 
beginning with the first fiscal year after the last fiscal year for 
which an analysis was prepared under subsection (a).''.

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR LONG-TERM COST ESTIMATING.

    Section 201(g) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
601(g)) is amended by striking the second sentence and inserting the 
following: ``In addition to such sums as may otherwise be appropriated 
to the Office, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Office 
for fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter $5,000,000 to 
prepare the long-term cost estimates required under section 402(b).''.
                                 <all>
