[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4404 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

<DOC>
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4404


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 12, 2016

Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To require an exercise related to terrorist and foreign fighter travel, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel 
Exercise Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. EXERCISE ON TERRORIST AND FOREIGN FIGHTER TRAVEL.

    (a) In General.--In addition to, or as part of exercise programs 
currently carried out by the Department of Homeland Security, to 
enhance domestic preparedness for and collective response to terrorism, 
promote the dissemination of homeland security information, and test 
the security posture of the United States, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, through appropriate offices and components of the Department 
and in coordination with the relevant Federal departments and agencies, 
shall, not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, develop and conduct an exercise related to the terrorist and 
foreign fighter threat.
    (b) Exercise Requirements.--The exercise required under subsection 
(a) shall include--
            (1) a scenario involving--
                    (A) persons traveling from the United States to 
                join or provide material support or resources to a 
                terrorist organization abroad; and
                    (B) terrorist infiltration into the United States, 
                including United States citizens and foreign nationals; 
                and
            (2) coordination with appropriate Federal departments and 
        agencies, foreign governments, and State, local, tribal, 
        territorial, and private sector stakeholders.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the completion of the 
exercise required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall, consistent with the protection of classified 
information, submit an after-action report to the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate presenting the initial 
findings of such exercise, including any identified or potential 
vulnerabilities in United States defenses and any legislative changes 
requested in light of the findings. The report shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Prohibition on Additional Funding.--No additional funds are 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section.
    (e) Definition.--In this section, the term ``material support or 
resources'' has the meaning given such term in section 2339A of title 
18, United States Code.

SEC. 3. EMERGING THREATS IN THE NATIONAL EXERCISE PROGRAM.

    Subparagraph (A) of section 648(b)(2) of the Post-Katrina Emergency 
Management Reform Act of 2006 (6 U.S.C. 748(b)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (v), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
            (2) by adding after clause (vi) the following new clause:
                            ``(vii) designed, to the extent 
                        practicable, to include exercises addressing 
                        emerging terrorist threats, such as scenarios 
                        involving United States citizens departing the 
                        United States to enlist with or provide 
                        material support or resources to terrorist 
                        organizations abroad or terrorist infiltration 
                        into the United States, including United States 
                        citizens and foreign nationals; and''.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 11, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
