[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2448 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2448

To provide for the appointment of additional Federal bankruptcy judges, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            January 19, 2016

   Mr. Coons introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the appointment of additional Federal bankruptcy judges, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. PERMANENT JUDGESHIPS.

    The following authorized bankruptcy judgeship positions shall be 
filled in the manner prescribed in section 152(a)(1) of title 28, 
United States Code, for the appointment of bankruptcy judges provided 
for in section 152(a)(2) of such title:
            (1) Two additional bankruptcy judgeships for the district 
        of Delaware.
            (2) Two additional bankruptcy judgeships for the eastern 
        district of Michigan.
            (3) Two additional bankruptcy judgeships for the middle 
        district of Florida.

SEC. 3. CONVERSION OF EXISTING TEMPORARY BANKRUPTCY JUDGESHIPS.

    (a)(1) The 4 temporary bankruptcy judgeships authorized for the 
district of Delaware pursuant to section 1223(b)(1)(C) of Public Law 
109-8 (2005) (28 U.S.C. 152 note) are converted to permanent bankruptcy 
judgeships under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States Code.
    (2) The temporary bankruptcy judgeship authorized for the district 
of Delaware pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of Public Law 102-361 (1992), 
as amended by section 307 of title III of Public Law 104-317 (1996) (28 
U.S.C. 152 note), is converted to a permanent bankruptcy judgeship 
under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States Code.
    (b) The 2 temporary bankruptcy judgeships authorized for the 
southern district of Florida pursuant to section 1223(b)(1)(D) of 
Public Law 109-8 (2005) (28 U.S.C. 152 note) are converted to permanent 
bankruptcy judgeships under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United 
States Code.
    (c) Two of the temporary bankruptcy judgeships authorized for the 
district of Maryland pursuant to section 1223(b)(1)(F) of Public Law 
109-8 (2005) (28 U.S.C. 152 note) are converted to permanent bankruptcy 
judgeships under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States Code.
    (d) The temporary bankruptcy judgeship authorized for the eastern 
district of Michigan pursuant to section 1223(b)(1)(G) of Public Law 
109-8 (2005) (28 U.S.C. 152 note) is converted to a permanent 
bankruptcy judgeship under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States 
Code.
    (e) The temporary bankruptcy judgeship authorized for the district 
of Nevada pursuant to section 1223(b)(1)(T) of Public Law 109-8 (2005) 
(28 U.S.C. 152 note) is converted to a permanent bankruptcy judgeship 
under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States Code.
    (f) The temporary bankruptcy judgeship authorized for the eastern 
district of North Carolina pursuant to section 1223(b)(1)(M) of Public 
Law 109-8 (2005) (28 U.S.C. 152 note) is converted to a permanent 
bankruptcy judgeship under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States 
Code.
    (g)(1) The temporary bankruptcy judgeship authorized for the 
district of Puerto Rico pursuant to section 1223(b)(1)(P) of Public Law 
109-8 (2005) (28 U.S.C. 152 note) is converted to a permanent 
bankruptcy judgeship under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States 
Code.
    (2) The temporary bankruptcy judgeship authorized for the district 
of Puerto Rico pursuant to section 3(a)(7) of Public Law 102-361 
(1992), as amended by section 307 of title III of Public Law 104-317 
(1996) (28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted to a permanent bankruptcy 
judgeship under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States Code.
    (h) The temporary bankruptcy judgeship authorized for the western 
district of Tennessee pursuant to section 1223(b)(1)(Q) of Public Law 
109-8 (2005) (28 U.S.C. 152 note) is converted to a permanent 
bankruptcy judgeship under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States 
Code.
    (i) The temporary bankruptcy judgeship authorized for the eastern 
district of Virginia pursuant to section 1223(b)(1)(R) of Public Law 
109-8 (2005) (28 U.S.C. 152 note) is converted to a permanent 
bankruptcy judgeship under section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States 
Code.

SEC. 4. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

    Section 152(a)(2) of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the item relating to the district of Delaware, by 
        striking ``1'' and inserting ``8'';
            (2) in the item relating to the middle district of Florida, 
        by striking ``8'' and inserting ``10'';
            (3) in the item relating to the southern district of 
        Florida, by striking ``5'' and inserting ``7'';
            (4) in the item relating to the district of Maryland, by 
        striking ``4'' and inserting ``6'';
            (5) in the item relating to the eastern district of 
        Michigan, by striking ``4'' and inserting ``7''.
            (6) in the item relating to the district of Nevada, by 
        striking ``3'' and inserting ``4'';
            (7) in the item relating to the eastern district of North 
        Carolina, by striking ``2'' and inserting ``3'';
            (8) in the item relating to the district of Puerto Rico, by 
        striking ``2'' and inserting ``4'';
            (9) in the item relating to the western district of 
        Tennessee, by striking ``4'' and inserting ``5''; and
            (10) in the item relating to the eastern district of 
        Virginia, by striking ``5'' and inserting ``6''.

SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
