[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3484 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 442
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3484

                          [Report No. 114-570]

 To authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into certain 
leases at the Department of Veterans Affairs West Los Angeles Campus in 
            Los Angeles, California, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 10, 2015

  Mr. Ted Lieu of California introduced the following bill; which was 
             referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

                              May 17, 2016

Additional sponsors: Mr. Schiff, Mr. Lowenthal, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mrs. 
Torres, Mr. Honda, Mr. Knight, Ms. Linda T. Sanchez of California, Ms. 
    Judy Chu of California, Ms. Hahn, Mr. Becerra, Ms. Brownley of 
        California, Mr. Sherman, Mr. Takano, and Mr. DeSaulnier

                              May 17, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
    [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on 
                          September 10, 2015]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into certain 
leases at the Department of Veterans Affairs West Los Angeles Campus in 
            Los Angeles, California, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Los Angeles Homeless Veterans 
Leasing Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO CERTAIN LEASES AT THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS WEST LOS ANGELES CAMPUS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may carry out 
leases described in subsection (b) at the Department of Veterans 
Affairs West Los Angeles Campus in Los Angeles, California (hereinafter 
in this section referred to as the ``Campus'').
    (b) Leases Described.--Leases described in this subsection are the 
following:
            (1) Any enhanced-use lease of real property under 
        subchapter V of chapter 81 of title 38, United States Code, for 
        purposes of providing supportive housing, as that term is 
        defined in section 8161(3) of such title, that principally 
        benefit veterans and their families.
            (2) Any lease of real property for a term not to exceed 50 
        years to a third party to provide services that principally 
        benefit veterans and their families and that are limited to one 
        or more of the following purposes:
                    (A) The promotion of health and wellness, including 
                nutrition and spiritual wellness.
                    (B) Education.
                    (C) Vocational training, skills building, or other 
                training related to employment.
                    (D) Peer activities, socialization, or physical 
                recreation.
                    (E) Assistance with legal issues and Federal 
                benefits.
                    (F) Volunteerism.
                    (G) Family support services, including child care.
                    (H) Transportation.
                    (I) Services in support of one or more of the 
                purposes specified in subparagraphs (A) through (H).
            (3) A lease of real property for a term not to exceed 10 
        years to The Regents of the University of California, a 
        corporation organized under the laws of the State of 
        California, on behalf of its University of California, Los 
        Angeles (UCLA) campus (hereinafter in this section referred to 
        as ``The Regents''), if--
                    (A) the lease is consistent with the master plan 
                described in subsection (g);
                    (B) the provision of services to veterans is the 
                predominant focus of the activities of The Regents at 
                the Campus during the term of the lease;
                    (C) The Regents expressly agrees to provide, during 
                the term of the lease and to an extent and in a manner 
                that the Secretary considers appropriate, additional 
                services and support (for which The Regents is either 
                not compensated by the Secretary or is compensated 
                through an existing medical affiliation agreement) 
                that--
                            (i) principally benefit veterans and their 
                        families, including veterans that are severely 
                        disabled, women, aging, or homeless; and
                            (ii) may consist of activities relating to 
                        the medical, clinical, therapeutic, dietary, 
                        rehabilitative, legal, mental, spiritual, 
                        physical, recreational, research, and 
                        counseling needs of veterans and their families 
                        or any of the purposes specified in any of 
                        subparagraphs (A) through (I) of paragraph (1); 
                        and
                    (D) The Regents maintains records documenting the 
                value of the additional services and support that The 
                Regents provides pursuant to subparagraph (C) for the 
                duration of the lease and makes such records available 
                to the Secretary.
    (c) Limitation on Land-Sharing Agreements.--The Secretary may not 
carry out any land-sharing agreement pursuant to section 8153 of title 
38, United States Code, at the Campus unless such agreement--
            (1) provides additional health-care resources to the 
        Campus; and
            (2) benefits veterans and their families other than from 
        the generation of revenue for the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs.
    (d) Revenues From Leases at the Campus.--Any funds received by the 
Secretary under a lease described in subsection (b) shall be credited 
to the applicable Department medical facilities account and shall be 
available, without fiscal year limitation and without further 
appropriation, exclusively for the renovation and maintenance of the 
land and facilities at the Campus.
    (e) Easements.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        (other than Federal laws relating to environmental and historic 
        preservation), pursuant to section 8124 of title 38, United 
        States Code, the Secretary may grant easements or rights-of-way 
        on, above, or under lands at the Campus to--
                    (A) any local or regional public transportation 
                authority to access, construct, use, operate, maintain, 
                repair, or reconstruct public mass transit facilities, 
                including, fixed guideway facilities and transportation 
                centers; and
                    (B) the State of California, County of Los Angeles, 
                City of Los Angeles, or any agency or political 
                subdivision thereof, or any public utility company 
                (including any company providing electricity, gas, 
                water, sewage, or telecommunication services to the 
                public) for the purpose of providing such public 
                utilities.
            (2) Improvements.--Any improvements proposed pursuant to an 
        easement or right-of-way authorized under paragraph (1) shall 
        be subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
            (3) Termination.--Any easement or right-of-way authorized 
        under paragraph (1) shall be terminated upon the abandonment or 
        nonuse of the easement or right-of-way and all right, title, 
        and interest in the land covered by the easement or right-of-
        way shall revert to the United States.
    (f) Prohibition on Sale of Property.--Notwithstanding section 8164 
of title 38, United States Code, the Secretary may not sell or 
otherwise convey to a third party fee simple title to any real property 
or improvements to real property made at the Campus.
    (g) Consistency With Master Plan.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
each lease carried out under this section is consistent with the draft 
master plan approved by the Secretary on January 28, 2016, or successor 
master plans.
    (h) Compliance With Certain Laws.--
            (1) Laws relating to leases and land use.--If the Inspector 
        General of the Department of Veterans Affairs determines, as 
        part of an audit report or evaluation conducted by the 
        Inspector General, that the Department is not in compliance 
        with all Federal laws relating to leases and land use at the 
        Campus, or that significant mismanagement has occurred with 
        respect to leases or land use at the Campus, the Secretary may 
        not enter into any lease or land-sharing agreement at the 
        Campus, or renew any such lease or land-sharing agreement that 
        is not in compliance with such laws, until the Secretary 
        certifies to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives, and each Member of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives who represents the area in which the Campus is 
        located that all recommendations included in the audit report 
        or evaluation have been implemented.
            (2) Compliance of particular leases.--Except as otherwise 
        expressly provided by this section, no lease may be entered 
        into or renewed under this section unless the lease complies 
        with chapter 33 of title 41, United States Code, and all 
        Federal laws relating to environmental and historic 
        preservation.
    (i) Community Veterans Engagement Board.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a 
        Community Veterans Engagement Board (in this subsection 
        referred to as the ``Board'') for the Campus to coordinate 
        locally with the Department of Veterans Affairs to--
                    (A) identify the goals of the community; and
                    (B) provide advice and recommendations to the 
                Secretary to improve services and outcomes for 
                veterans, members of the Armed Forces, and the families 
                of such veterans and members.
            (2) Members.--The Board shall be comprised of a number of 
        members that the Secretary determines appropriate, of which not 
        less than 50 percent shall be veterans. The nonveteran members 
        shall be family members of veterans, veteran advocates, service 
        providers, or stakeholders.
            (3) Community input.--In carrying out subparagraphs (A) and 
        (B) of paragraph (1), the Board shall--
                    (A) provide the community opportunities to 
                collaborate and communicate with the Board, including 
                by conducting public forums on the Campus; and
                    (B) focus on local issues regarding the Department 
                that are identified by the community, including with 
                respect to health care, benefits, and memorial services 
                at the Campus.
    (j) Notification and Reports.--
            (1) Congressional notification.--With respect to each lease 
        or land-sharing agreement intended to be entered into or 
        renewed at the Campus, the Secretary shall notify the Committee 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives, and each Member of the 
        Senate and the House of Representatives who represents the area 
        in which the Campus is located of the intent of the Secretary 
        to enter into or renew the lease or land-sharing agreement not 
        later than 45 days before entering into or renewing the lease 
        or land-sharing agreement.
            (2) Annual report.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than 
        annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives, and each 
        Member of the Senate and the House of Representatives who 
        represents the area in which the Campus is located an annual 
        report evaluating all leases and land-sharing agreements 
        carried out at the Campus, including--
                    (A) an evaluation of the management of the revenue 
                generated by the leases; and
                    (B) the records described in subsection (b)(3)(D).
            (3) Inspector general report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than each of two years 
                and five years after the date of the enactment of this 
                Act, and as determined necessary by the Inspector 
                General of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
                thereafter, the Inspector General shall submit to the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives, and each Member of the Senate and the 
                House of Representatives who represents the area in 
                which the Campus is located a report on all leases 
                carried out at the Campus and the management by the 
                Department of the use of land at the Campus, including 
                an assessment of the efforts of the Department to 
                implement the master plan described in subsection (g) 
                with respect to the Campus.
                    (B) Consideration of annual report.--In preparing 
                each report required by subparagraph (A), the Inspector 
                General shall take into account the most recent report 
                submitted to Congress by the Secretary under paragraph 
                (2).
    (k) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as a limitation on the authority of the Secretary to enter 
into other agreements regarding the Campus that are authorized by law 
and not inconsistent with this section.
    (l) Principally Benefit Veterans and Their Families Defined.--In 
this section the term ``principally benefit veterans and their 
families'', with respect to services provided by a person or entity 
under a lease of property or land-sharing agreement--
            (1) means services--
                    (A) provided exclusively to veterans and their 
                families; or
                    (B) that are designed for the particular needs of 
                veterans and their families, as opposed to the general 
                public, and any benefit of those services to the 
                general public is ancillary to the intended benefit to 
                veterans and their families; and
            (2) excludes services in which the only benefit to veterans 
        and their families is the generation of revenue for the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (m) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Prohibition on disposal of property.--Section 224(a) of 
        the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-161; 121 
        Stat. 2272) is amended by striking ``The Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs'' and inserting ``Except as authorized under the Los 
        Angeles Homeless Veterans Leasing Act of 2016, the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs''.
            (2) Enhanced-use leases.--Section 8162(c) of title 38, 
        United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, other than an 
        enhanced-use lease under the Los Angeles Homeless Veterans 
        Leasing Act of 2016,'' before ``shall be considered''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 442

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 3484

                          [Report No. 114-570]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into certain 
leases at the Department of Veterans Affairs West Los Angeles Campus in 
            Los Angeles, California, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 17, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
