[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 702 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 702

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
           To adapt to changing crude oil market conditions.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The United States has enjoyed a renaissance in energy 
        production, establishing the United States as the world's 
        leading oil producer.
            (2) By authorizing crude oil exports, the Congress can spur 
        domestic energy production, create and preserve jobs, help 
        maintain and strengthen our independent shipping fleet that is 
        essential to national defense, and generate State and Federal 
        revenues.
            (3) An energy-secure United States that is a net exporter 
        of energy has the potential to transform the security 
        environment around the world, notably in Europe and the Middle 
        East.
            (4) For our European allies and Israel, the presence of 
        more United States oil in the market will offer more secure 
        supply options, which will strengthen United States strategic 
        alliances and help curtail the use of energy as a political 
        weapon.
            (5) The 60-ship Maritime Security Fleet is a vital element 
        of our military's strategic sealift and global response 
        capability. It assures United States-flag ships and United 
        States crews will be available to support the United States 
        military when it needs to mobilize to protect our allies, and 
        is the most prudent and economical solution to meet current and 
        projected sealift requirements for the United States.
            (6) The Maritime Security Fleet program provides a labor 
        base of skilled American mariners who are available to crew the 
        United States Government-owned strategic sealift fleet, as well 
        as the United States commercial fleet, in both peace and war.
            (7) The United States has reduced its oil consumption over 
        the past decade, and increasing investment in clean energy 
        technology and energy efficiency will lower energy prices, 
        reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and increase national 
        security.

SEC. 2. REPEAL.

    Section 103 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6212) and the item relating thereto in the table of contents of that 
Act are repealed.

SEC. 3. NATIONAL POLICY ON OIL EXPORT RESTRICTION.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, to promote the 
efficient exploration, production, storage, supply, marketing, pricing, 
and regulation of energy resources, including fossil fuels, no official 
of the Federal Government shall impose or enforce any restriction on 
the export of crude oil.

SEC. 4. STUDY AND RECOMMENDATIONS.

    (a) Strategic Petroleum Reserve.--Not later than 120 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall conduct a 
study and transmit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate recommendations on the appropriate size, composition, and 
purpose of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
    (b) Greenhouse Gas Emissions.--Not later than 120 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall conduct, 
and transmit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate the results of, a study on the net greenhouse gas emissions 
that will result from the repeal of the crude oil export ban under 
section 2.
    (c) Strategic Petroleum Reserve Study.--Not later than 120 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall 
conduct a study and transmit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate recommendations on the appropriate size, 
composition, and purpose of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
    (d) Crude Oil Export Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Department of Commerce, in 
        consultation with the Department of Energy, and other 
        departments as appropriate, shall conduct a study of the State 
        and national implications of lifting the crude oil export ban 
        with respect to consumers and the economy.
            (2) Contents.--The study conducted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include an analysis of--
                    (A) the economic impact that exporting crude oil 
                will have on the economy of the United States;
                    (B) the economic impact that exporting crude oil 
                will have on consumers, taking into account impacts on 
                energy prices;
                    (C) the economic impact that exporting crude oil 
                will have on domestic manufacturing, taking into 
                account impacts on employment; and
                    (D) the economic impact that exporting crude oil 
                will have on the refining sector, taking into account 
                impacts on employment.
            (3) Report to congress.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Bureau of Industry and 
        Security shall submit to Congress a report containing the 
        results of the study conducted under paragraph (1).

SEC. 5. SAVINGS CLAUSE.

    Nothing in this Act limits the authority of the President under the 
Constitution, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et 
seq.), part B of title II of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
U.S.C. 6271 et seq.), the Trading With the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. App. 1 
et seq.), or any other provision of law that imposes sanctions on a 
foreign person or foreign government (including any provision of law 
that prohibits or restricts United States persons from engaging in a 
transaction with a sanctioned person or government), including a 
foreign government that is designated as a state sponsor of terrorism, 
to prohibit exports.

SEC. 6. NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT ENHANCEMENT.

    (a) Payments.--Section 53106(a)(1) of title 46, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking the comma before ``for 
        each'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``2016, 2017, and 
        2018;'' and inserting ``and 2016'';
            (3) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (G); 
        and
            (4) by striking subparagraph (D) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(D) $4,999,950 for fiscal year 2017;
                    ``(E) $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018, 
                2019, and 2020;
                    ``(F) $5,233,463 for fiscal year 2021; and''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 53111 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``2016, 2017, and 2018;'' 
        and inserting ``and 2016'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (7); and
            (3) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) $299,997,000 for fiscal year 2017;
            ``(5) $300,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018, 2019, and 
        2020;
            ``(6) $314,007,780 for fiscal year 2021; and''.

SEC. 7. PARTNERSHIPS WITH MINORITY SERVING INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Department of Energy shall continue to develop 
and broaden partnerships with minority serving institutions, including 
Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSI) and Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities (HBCUs) in the areas of oil and gas exploration, 
production, midstream, and refining.
    (b) Public-Private Partnerships.--The Department of Energy shall 
encourage public-private partnerships between the energy sector and 
minority serving institutions, including Hispanic Serving Institutions 
and Historically Black Colleges and Universities.

SEC. 8. REPORT.

    Not later than 10 years after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Commerce shall jointly 
transmit to Congress a report that reviews the impact of lifting the 
oil export ban under this Act as it relates to promoting United States 
energy and national security.

SEC. 9. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Commerce shall jointly 
transmit to Congress a report analyzing how lifting the ban on crude 
oil exports will help create opportunities for veterans and women in 
the United States, while promoting energy and national security.

SEC. 10. PROHIBITION ON EXPORTS OF CRUDE OIL, REFINED PETROLEUM 
              PRODUCTS, AND PETROCHEMICAL PRODUCTS TO THE ISLAMIC 
              REPUBLIC OF IRAN.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize the export of 
crude oil, refined petroleum products, and petrochemical products by or 
through any entity or person, wherever located, subject to the 
jurisdiction of the United States to any entity or person located in, 
subject to the jurisdiction of, or sponsored by the Islamic Republic of 
Iran.

            Passed the House of Representatives October 9, 2015.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 702

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

           To adapt to changing crude oil market conditions.
