[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1554 Engrossed in House (EH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1554

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To require a land conveyance involving the Elkhorn Ranch and the White 
River National Forest in the State of Colorado, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Elkhorn Ranch and White River 
National Forest Conveyance Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. LAND CONVEYANCE, ELKHORN RANCH AND WHITE RIVER NATIONAL FOREST, 
              COLORADO.

    (a) Land Conveyance Required.--Consistent with the purpose of the 
Act of March 3, 1909 (43 U.S.C. 772), all right, title, and interest of 
the United States (subject to subsection (b)) in and to a parcel of 
land consisting of approximately 148 acres as generally depicted on the 
map entitled ``Elkhorn Ranch Land Parcel-White River National Forest'' 
and dated March 2015 shall be conveyed by patent to the Gordman-
Leverich Partnership, a Colorado Limited Liability Partnership (in this 
section referred to as ``GLP'').
    (b) Existing Rights.--The conveyance under subsection (a)--
            (1) is subject to the valid existing rights of the lessee 
        of Federal oil and gas lease COC-75070 and any other valid 
        existing rights; and
            (2) shall reserve to the United States the right to collect 
        rent and royalty payments on the lease referred to in paragraph 
        (1) for the duration of the lease.
    (c) Existing Boundaries.--The conveyance under subsection (a) does 
not modify the exterior boundary of the White River National Forest or 
the boundaries of Sections 18 and 19 of Township 7 South, Range 93 
West, Sixth Principal Meridian, Colorado, as such boundaries are in 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Time for Conveyance; Payment of Costs.--The conveyance directed 
under subsection (a) shall be completed not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act. The conveyance shall be without 
consideration, except that all costs incurred by the Secretary of the 
Interior relating to any survey, platting, legal description, or other 
activities carried out to prepare and issue the patent shall be paid by 
GLP to the Secretary prior to the land conveyance.

            Passed the House of Representatives September 16, 2015.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1554

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To require a land conveyance involving the Elkhorn Ranch and the White 
River National Forest in the State of Colorado, and for other purposes.
