[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5717 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5717

To amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to improve collection of 
 Medicaid data and to expand coverage of tobacco cessation services to 
                          mothers of newborns.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 11, 2016

  Mr. Lance introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to improve collection of 
 Medicaid data and to expand coverage of tobacco cessation services to 
                          mothers of newborns.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Medicaid Data and Benefit 
Improvement Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. IMPROVING MEDICAID DATA.

    Section 1903(d) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(d)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(7)(A) In each CMS-64 or other quarterly expense report required 
to be submitted (for each quarter beginning on or after the date that 
is 2 years after the date that the form for such reports is revised, 
and guidance is issued, under subparagraph (B)) by a State for purposes 
of reconciling amounts paid to such State based on estimates under this 
subsection with amounts to be paid under subsection (a), such State 
shall include data on expenditures for medical assistance within each 
category of service disaggregated by each category of individuals (as 
specified by the Secretary in accordance with subparagraph (C)) used in 
determining the eligibility of individuals for medical assistance under 
the State plan or under a waiver of the plan.
    ``(B) Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of 
this paragraph, the Secretary shall revise the form for the CMS-64, or 
such other quarterly expense report, and issue necessary guidance for 
the use of such revised form, to enable States to comply with the 
requirement under subparagraph (A).
    ``(C) In specifying eligibility categories for purposes of 
subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall include as a separate eligibility 
category each of the following:
            ``(i) Pregnant women.
            ``(ii) With respect to individuals described in section 
        1902(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII), each of the following categories of 
        such individuals:
                    ``(I) Newly eligible individuals (as defined in 
                section 1905(y)(2)(A)) for whom the Federal medical 
                assistance percentage for amounts expended for medical 
                assistance is specified under section 1905(y)(1).
                    ``(II) Individuals described in subparagraph (A) of 
                section 1905(z)(2) for whom the Federal medical 
                assistance percentage is specified under such section.
                    ``(III) Individuals who are not described in 
                subclause (I) or (II).
            ``(iii) Each of the populations, not otherwise described in 
        clause (i) or (ii), by which a report under section 
        1902(a)(75)(A) is disaggregated.''.

SEC. 3. MEDICAID COVERAGE OF TOBACCO CESSATION SERVICES FOR MOTHERS OF 
              NEWBORNS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1905(bb) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1396d(bb)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(4) A woman shall continue to be treated as described in this 
subsection as a pregnant woman through the end of the 1-year period 
beginning on the date of the birth of a child of the woman.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Subsections (a)(2)(B) and (b)(2)(B) of section 1916 of 
        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396o) are each amended by 
        inserting ``(and women described in section 1905(bb) as 
        pregnant women pursuant to paragraph (4) of such section)'' 
        after ``tobacco cessation by pregnant women''.
            (2) Section 1927(d)(2)(F) of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396r-8(d)(2)(F)) is amended by inserting ``(and women 
        described in section 1905(bb) as pregnant women pursuant to 
        paragraph (4) of such section)'' after ``pregnant women''.
    (c) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the amendments 
        made by this section shall apply with respect to items and 
        services furnished on or after the date that is one year after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Exception for state legislation.--In the case of a 
        State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act, which 
        the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines requires 
        State legislation in order for the plan to meet any requirement 
        imposed by amendments made by this section, the plan shall not 
        be regarded as failing to comply with the requirements of such 
        title solely on the basis of its failure to meet such an 
        additional requirement before the first day of the first 
        calendar quarter beginning after the close of the first regular 
        session of the State legislature that begins after the 
        effective date specified in paragraph (1). For purposes of the 
        previous sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year 
        legislative session, each year of the session shall be 
        considered to be a separate regular session of the State 
        legislature.
    (d) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of 
Health and Human Services shall submit to Congress a report that 
assesses the use of the tobacco cessation service benefit under the 
Medicaid program, including under the amendments made by this section. 
Such report shall include an assessment of--
            (1) the extent that States are encouraging the use of such 
        benefit, such as through promotion of beneficiary and provider 
        awareness of such benefit; and
            (2) gaps in the delivery of such benefit.
                                 <all>
