[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1471 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1471

 To require declassification of certain redacted information from the 
 Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Community Activities Before and After 
    the Terrorist Attacks of September 2001 and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 1, 2015

 Mr. Paul (for himself, Mr. Wyden, and Mrs. Gillibrand) introduced the 
    following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Select 
                       Committee on Intelligence

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require declassification of certain redacted information from the 
 Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Community Activities Before and After 
    the Terrorist Attacks of September 2001 and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Transparency for the Families of 9/
11 Victims and Survivors Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. DECLASSIFICATION AND PUBLIC RELEASE OF CERTAIN REDACTED 
              PORTIONS OF THE JOINT INQUIRY INTO INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY 
              ACTIVITIES BEFORE AND AFTER THE TERRORIST ATTACKS OF 
              SEPTEMBER 2001.

    (a) Declassification and Public Release of the Joint Inquiry Into 
Intelligence Community Activities Before and After the Terrorist 
Attacks of September 2001.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act and subject to subsection (b), the President 
shall declassify and release to the public the previously redacted 
portions of the report on the Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Community 
Activities Before and After the Terrorist Attacks of September 2001, 
filed in the Senate and the House of Representatives on December 20, 
2002, including all the material under the heading ``Part Four--
Findings, Discussion and Narrative Regarding Certain Sensitive National 
Security Matters''.
    (b) Exception for Names and Information of Individuals and Certain 
Methodologies.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the President is not 
required to declassify and release to the public the names and 
identifying information of individuals or specific methodologies 
described in the report referred to in subsection (a) if such 
declassification and release would result in imminent lawless action or 
compromise presently ongoing national security operations.
                                 <all>
