[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 303 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 39
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 303

                          [Report No. 114-145]

      Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2685) making 
appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year ending 
     September 30, 2016, and for other purposes, and providing for 
    consideration of the bill (H.R. 2393) to amend the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 to repeal country of origin labeling requirements 
    with respect to beef, pork, and chicken, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 9, 2015

   Mr. Newhouse, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
      Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2685) making 
appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year ending 
     September 30, 2016, and for other purposes, and providing for 
    consideration of the bill (H.R. 2393) to amend the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 to repeal country of origin labeling requirements 
    with respect to beef, pork, and chicken, and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That (a) at any time after adoption of this resolution 
the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the 
House resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of 
the Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2685) making 
appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2016, and for other purposes. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill 
and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. 
After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. Points of order against provisions in the bill 
for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are waived.
    (b) During consideration of the bill for amendment--
            (1) each amendment, other than amendments provided for in 
        paragraph (2), shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally 
        divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent and 
        shall not be subject to amendment except as provided in 
        paragraph (2);
            (2) no pro forma amendment shall be in order except that 
        the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
        Appropriations or their respective designees may offer up to 10 
        pro forma amendments each at any point for the purpose of 
        debate; and
            (3) the chair of the Committee of the Whole may accord 
        priority in recognition on the basis of whether the Member 
        offering an amendment has caused it to be printed in the 
        portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose 
        in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so printed shall be 
        considered as read.
    (c) When the committee rises and reports the bill back to the House 
with a recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit 
with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2393) to amend the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 to repeal country of origin labeling requirements 
with respect to beef, pork, and chicken, and for other purposes. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Agriculture now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The 
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Agriculture; 
and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
                                                  House Calendar No. 39

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 303

                          [Report No. 114-145]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

      Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2685) making 
appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year ending 
     September 30, 2016, and for other purposes, and providing for 
    consideration of the bill (H.R. 2393) to amend the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 to repeal country of origin labeling requirements 
    with respect to beef, pork, and chicken, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              June 9, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
