[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2955 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 473
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2955

                          [Report No. 114-258]

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 19, 2016

    Mrs. Capito, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2017, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                                 SENATE

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $18,760; the 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate, $37,520; Majority Leader of the 
Senate, $39,920; Minority Leader of the Senate, $39,920; Majority Whip 
of the Senate, $9,980; Minority Whip of the Senate, $9,980; Chairmen of 
the Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $4,690 for each 
Chairman; and Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy Committees, 
$4,690 for each Chairman; in all, $174,840.

    Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $14,070 for each such Leader; in all, $28,140.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized 
by law, including agency contributions, $182,287,812, which shall be 
paid from this appropriation as follows:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $2,417,248.

                  office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $723,466.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $5,255,576.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $3,359,424.

                      committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $15,142,000.

                         conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,658,000 for each such committee; in all, $3,316,000.

 offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority 
and the Conference of the Minority, $817,402.

                           policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,692,905 for each such committee; in all, 
$3,385,810.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $436,886.

                        office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $24,772,000.

             office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $70,900,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,762,000.

               agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $50,000,000.

            Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $5,808,500.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,120,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                             of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $7,110; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for 
the Majority of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $7,110; in all, $28,440.

                   Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under paragraph 1 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, section 112 of the Supplemental Appropriations and 
Rescission Act, 1980 (Public Law 96-304), and Senate Resolution 281, 
96th Congress, agreed to March 11, 1980, $133,265,000, of which 
$26,650,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

         u.s. senate caucus on international narcotics control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $508,000.

                        secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$10,250,000 of which $4,350,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2021 and of which $4,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

             sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate, $126,535,000, which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                          miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $20,870,349 which shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019.

        senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$390,000,000 of which $19,109,218 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2019.

                          official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

requiring amounts remaining in senators' official personnel and office 
   expense account to be used for deficit reduction or to reduce the 
                              federal debt

    Sec. 1.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any amounts 
appropriated under this Act under the heading ``SENATE'' under the 
heading ``Contingent Expenses of the Senate'' under the heading 
``senators' official personnel and office expense account'' shall be 
available for obligation only during the fiscal year or fiscal years 
for which such amounts are made available. Any unexpended balances 
under such allowances remaining after the end of the period of 
availability shall be returned to the Treasury in accordance with the 
undesignated paragraph under the center heading ``GENERAL PROVISION'' 
under chapter XI of the Third Supplemental Appropriation Act, 1957 (2 
U.S.C. 4107) and used for deficit reduction (or, if there is no Federal 
budget deficit after all such payments have been made, for reducing the 
Federal debt, in such manner as the Secretary of the Treasury considers 
appropriate).

                    authority for transfer of funds

    Sec. 2.  Section 3(c)(3) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2004 (2 U.S.C. 2108(c)(3)) is amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``and 
        disbursements'' and inserting ``disbursements, and transfers''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) Transfers.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Commission may 
                        transfer amounts in the fund to the Architect 
                        of the Capitol for the cost of the conservation 
                        or restoration, in whole or in part, by the 
                        Architect of the Capitol of works of art, 
                        historical objects, documents, or material 
                        relating to historical matters placed or 
                        exhibited, or to be placed or exhibited, within 
                        the Senate wing of the United States Capitol or 
                        any Senate Office Building.
                            ``(ii) Availability.--Amounts transferred 
                        to the Architect of the Capitol under clause 
                        (i) shall remain available until expended.''.

                      adjustments to compensation

    Sec. 3.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no adjustment 
shall be made under section 601(a) of the Legislative Reorganization 
Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4501) (relating to cost of living adjustments for 
Members of Congress) during fiscal year 2017.

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,203,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$10,095,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including:
            (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
        Physician;
            (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
        Officer;
            (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
        officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
        Physician;
            (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
        per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis 
        heretofore provided for such assistants; and
            (5) $2,692,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
        Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to 
        the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced 
        and credited to the applicable appropriation or appropriations 
        from which such salaries, allowances, and other expenses are 
        payable and shall be available for all the purposes thereof, 
        $3,784,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer 
        of the House of Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,400,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay, and Government contributions for health, 
retirement, social security, professional liability insurance, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $320,000,000 of which overtime 
shall not exceed $35,305,000 unless the Committee on Appropriations of 
the House and Senate are notified, to be disbursed by the Chief of the 
Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation 
of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $67,000,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 2017 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland 
Security.

                        Administrative Provision

              acceptance and disposal of surplus property

    Sec. 1001.  2 U.S.C. 1906 is amended by inserting ``and 
acceptance'' after ``Disposal'' in the title, by inserting ``, 
including disposed, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned and unclaimed 
property'' after ``surplus or obsolete property'' and by inserting 
``and the Capitol Police may accept the surplus or obsolete property of 
Federal agencies upon notification to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate'' after ``method'' in 
subsection (a).

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,959,000, of which $450,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That not more than $500 
may be expended on the certification of the Executive Director of the 
Office of Compliance in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $46,500,000.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                  Capital Construction and Operations

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for all necessary expenses 
for surveys and studies, construction, operation, and general and 
administrative support in connection with facilities and activities 
under the care of the Architect of the Capitol including the Botanic 
Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and House office 
buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of the Architect 
of the Capitol; including furnishings and office equipment; including 
not more than $5,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol may approve; 
for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a passenger 
motor vehicle, $92,957,000, of which $1,368,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $33,082,000, of which $9,082,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

                            Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $11,712,000, of which $2,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

                        Senate Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be 
expended under the control and supervision of the Architect of the 
Capitol, $88,406,000, of which $27,944,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                          Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Publishing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $86,646,000, of which $9,505,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That not more than $9,000,000 of 
the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein 
provided shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2017.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$42,179,000, of which $17,236,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

            Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds, and Security

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United States 
Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer Facility, and 
AOC security operations, $29,649,000, of which $12,500,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $14,067,000, of which $4,054,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That, of the 
amount made available under this heading, the Architect of the Capitol 
may obligate and expend such sums as may be necessary for the 
maintenance, care and operation of the National Garden established 
under section 307E of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 
(2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the Architect of the Capitol 
or a duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol Visitor 
Center, $20,557,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

       no bonuses for contractors behind schedule or over budget

    Sec. 1101.  None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
Architect of the Capitol may be used to make incentive or award 
payments to contractors for work on contracts or programs for which the 
contractor is behind schedule or over budget, unless the Architect of 
the Capitol, or agency-employed designee, determines that any such 
deviations are due to unforeseeable events, government-driven scope 
changes, or are not significant within the overall scope of the project 
and/or program.

                                 scrims

    Sec. 1102.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used for scrims containing photographs of building facades during 
restoration or construction projects performed by the Architect of the 
Capitol.

                       flag office revolving fund

    Sec. 1103. (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury 
of the United States a revolving fund to be known as the ``Flag Office 
Revolving Fund'' (in this section referred to as the ``Fund'') for 
services provided by the Flag Office of the Architect of the Capitol 
(in this section referred to as the ``Flag Office'').
    (b) Deposit of Fees.--The Architect of the Capitol shall deposit 
any fees charged for services described in subsection (a) into the 
Fund.
    (c) Contents of Fund.--The Fund shall consist of the following 
amounts:
            (1) Amounts deposited by the Architect of the Capitol under 
        subsection (b).
            (2) Any other amounts received by the Architect of the 
        Capitol which are attributable to services provided by the Flag 
        Office.
            (3) Such other amounts as may be appropriated under law.
    (d) Use of Amounts in Fund.--Amounts in the Fund shall be available 
for disbursement by the Architect of the Capitol, without fiscal year 
limitation, for expenses in connection with the services provided by 
the Flag Office, including--
            (1) supplies, inventories, equipment, and other expenses;
            (2) the reimbursement of any applicable appropriations 
        account for amounts used from such appropriations account to 
        pay the salaries of employees of the Flag Office; and
            (3) amounts necessary to carry out the authorized levels in 
        the Fallen Heroes Flag Act of 2016.

      use of expired funds for unemployment compensation payments

    Sec. 1104. (a) Available balances of expired Architect of the 
Capitol appropriations shall be available to the Architect of the 
Capitol for reimbursing the Secretary of Labor for any amounts paid 
with respect to unemployment compensation payments for former employees 
of the Architect of the Capitol, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, without regard to the fiscal year for which the obligation to make 
such payments is incurred.
    (b) This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2017 and 
each succeeding fiscal year.

                  architect of the capitol contracting

    Sec. 1105.  In addition to recourses available under current 
policies and procedures, the Architect of the Capitol shall establish, 
document, and follow policies and procedures for suspension and 
debarment of firms or individuals the Architect has determined should 
be excluded from future contracts. The Architect shall provide for 
notice to other government agencies of suspension or debarment actions 
taken via the government-wide excluded parties system administered by 
the General Services Administration. The Architect shall consult the 
list of excluded parties when making responsibility determinations 
prior to the award of any contract.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation 
and distribution of catalog records and other publications of the 
Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses 
of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to 
the income of any trust fund held by the Board, $434,934,000, of which 
not more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from collections credited to 
this appropriation during fiscal year 2017, and shall remain available 
until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 
480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2017 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto:  Provided, That 
the Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived 
from collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than $6,350,000: 
 Provided further, That, of the total amount appropriated, not more 
than $12,000 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for the Overseas Field Offices:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $8,400,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the digital collections and educational curricula program: 
 Provided further, That, of the total amount appropriated, $1,300,000 
shall remain available until expended for upgrade of the Legislative 
Branch Financial Management System:  Provided further, That, of the 
total amount appropriated, $2,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2019, to replace shelving in the Law Library's collection 
storage area.

                            Copyright Office

                         salaries and expenses

    For all necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $68,825,000, of 
which not more than $33,619,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2017 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code:  
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
funds derived from collections under such section, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That not more than $5,929,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2017 under sections 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(3), 803(e), 1005, and 1316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
amount by which collections are less than $39,548,000:  Provided 
further, That $6,147,000 shall be derived from prior year unobligated 
balances:  Provided further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount 
appropriated is available for the maintenance of an ``International 
Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of 
Congress for the purpose of training nationals of developing countries 
in intellectual property laws and policies:  Provided further, That not 
more than $6,500 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian 
of Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for activities of the International Copyright Institute and 
for copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars:  Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United 
States Code, any amounts made available under this heading which are 
attributable to royalty fees and payments received by the Copyright 
Office pursuant to sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may 
be used for the costs incurred in the administration of the Copyright 
Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the costs of salaries and 
benefits for the Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 
802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For all necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 
203 of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $106,945,000:  Provided, That no part of such amount may be 
used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, 
or preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public 
General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such 
publication has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

    For all necessary expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $50,248,000:  Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated, $650,000 shall be available to 
contract to provide newspapers to blind and physically handicapped 
residents at no cost to the individual.

                       Administrative Provisions

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

    Sec. 1201. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2017, the obligational 
authority of the Library of Congress for the activities described in 
subsection (b) may not exceed $188,188,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.

                      GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE

                        Congressional Publishing

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized publishing of congressional information and the 
distribution of congressional information in any format; expenses 
necessary for preparing the semimonthly and session index to the 
Congressional Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, 
United States Code); publishing of Government publications authorized 
by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and publishing, and 
distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $79,736,000:  Provided, 
That this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of 
the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Publishing Office Business 
Operations Revolving Fund for carrying out the purposes of this 
heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and Senate:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding sections 901, 902, and 906 of title 44, United States 
Code, this appropriation may be used to prepare indexes to the 
Congressional Record on only a monthly and session basis.

     Public Information Programs of the Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the public information programs of the Office of 
Superintendent of Documents necessary to provide for the cataloging and 
indexing of Government publications and their distribution to the 
public, Members of Congress, other Government agencies, and designated 
depository and international exchange libraries as authorized by law, 
$29,500,000:  Provided, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from 
current year appropriations are authorized for producing and 
disseminating Congressional serial sets and other related publications 
for fiscal years 2015 and 2016 to depository and other designated 
libraries:  Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended 
balances in this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years may be transferred to the Government Publishing Office 
Business Operations Revolving Fund for carrying out the purposes of 
this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

    Government Publishing Office Business Operations Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Publishing Office Business Operations 
Revolving Fund, $7,832,000, to remain available until expended, for 
information technology development and facilities repair:  Provided, 
That the Government Publishing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Publishing Office Business Operations Revolving Fund:  
Provided further, That not more than $7,500 may be expended on the 
certification of the Director of the Government Publishing Office in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses:  
Provided further, That the business operations revolving fund shall be 
available for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor 
vehicles:  Provided further, That expenditures in connection with 
travel expenses of the advisory councils to the Director of the 
Government Publishing Office shall be deemed necessary to carry out the 
provisions of title 44, United States Code:  Provided further, That the 
business operations revolving fund shall be available for temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5316 of such title:  Provided further, That activities 
financed through the business operations revolving fund may provide 
information in any format:  Provided further, That the business 
operations revolving fund and the funds provided under the heading 
``Public Information Programs of the Superintendent of Documents'' may 
not be used for contracted security services at GPO's passport facility 
in the District of Columbia.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability Office, 
including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of 
the Comptroller General of the United States in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses; temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; 
advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 
of title 31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable 
under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by 
the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters 
in foreign countries, $542,405,919:  Provided, That, in addition, 
$23,350,000 of payments received under sections 782, 791, 3521, and 
9105 of title 31, United States Code, shall be available without fiscal 
year limitation:  Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum 
or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by 
the respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-
Federal participants:  Provided further, That payments hereunder to the 
Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which 
costs involved are initially financed.

                OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under section 
313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), 
$5,600,000:  Provided, That funds made available to support Russian 
participants shall only be used for those engaging in free market 
development, humanitarian activities, and civic engagement, and shall 
not be used for officials of the central government of Russia.

   JOHN C. STENNIS CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

    For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service 
Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the John C. 
Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act (2 
U.S.C. 1105), $430,000.

                                TITLE II

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

    Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2017 unless 
expressly so provided in this Act.

                 rates of compensation and designation

    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 
32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or 
designation of any office or position appropriated for is different 
from that specifically established by such Act, the rate of 
compensation and the designation in this Act shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto:  Provided, That the provisions in this Act for 
the various items of official expenses of Members, officers, and 
committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, and clerk hire 
for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives shall be the 
permanent law with respect thereto.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order issued under existing law.

                             costs of lbfmc

    Sec. 205.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $2,000.

                         landscape maintenance

    Sec. 206.  For fiscal year 2017 and each fiscal year thereafter, 
the Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the District of 
Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the landscape features, 
excluding streets, in Square 580 up to the beginning of I-395.

                        limitation on transfers

    Sec. 207.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.

                      guided tours of the capitol

    Sec. 208. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act may be 
used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States Capitol 
which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of 
Congress and other offices of the House of Representatives and Senate.
    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2017''.
                                                       Calendar No. 473

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2955

                          [Report No. 114-258]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 19, 2016

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
