[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 701 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 109
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 701

                          [Report No. 114-530]

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4498) to clarify the 
    definition of general solicitation under Federal securities law.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 26, 2016

   Mr. Sessions, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4498) to clarify the 
    definition of general solicitation under Federal securities law.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4498) to clarify the 
definition of general solicitation under Federal securities law. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Financial Services; (2) the amendment printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, if 
offered by the Member designated in the report, which shall be in order 
without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as 
read, shall be separately debatable for the time specified in the 
report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
and shall not be subject to a demand for a division of the question; 
and (3) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
                                                 House Calendar No. 109

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 701

                          [Report No. 114-530]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4498) to clarify the 
    definition of general solicitation under Federal securities law.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 26, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
