[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3283 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3283

 To amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to exempt from certain 
    age-related restrictions in the labor laws 16- and 17-year-old 
 individuals employed by their parents in certain logging activities, 
and to direct the Secretary of Transportation to establish a program to 
 allow States to enter into interstate compacts to standardize the age 
        requirements for operators of commercial motor vehicles.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 29, 2015

 Mr. Poliquin introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the 
  Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to exempt from certain 
    age-related restrictions in the labor laws 16- and 17-year-old 
 individuals employed by their parents in certain logging activities, 
and to direct the Secretary of Transportation to establish a program to 
 allow States to enter into interstate compacts to standardize the age 
        requirements for operators of commercial motor vehicles.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Securing America's Next Generation 
of Safe Loggers and Truckers Act''.

SEC. 2. EXEMPTIONS FROM CERTAIN AGE-RELATED RESTRICTIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT 
              BY A PARENT IN LOGGING AND MECHANIZED OPERATIONS.

    The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 3 (29 U.S.C. 203)--
                    (A) in subsection (l), by adding at the end the 
                following: ``, and that employment of employees ages 16 
                or 17 years in a logging operation in an occupation 
                that the Secretary of Labor finds and declares to be 
                particularly hazardous for the employment of 
                individuals of such ages shall not constitute 
                oppressive child labor if such employee is employed 
                exclusively by his or her parent or by a person 
                standing in the place of his or her parent in a logging 
                operation owned or operated by such parent or person''; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(z) `Logging'-- (1) means--
            ``(A) the felling, skidding, yarding, loading and 
        processing of timber by equipment other than manually operated 
        chainsaws and cable skidders;
            ``(B) the felling of timber in mechanized operations, 
        including whole tree processors, cut-to-length processors, 
        stroke boom delimbers, wheeled and track feller-bunchers, pull 
        thru delimbers, wheeled and track forwarders, chippers, 
        grinders, mechanical debarkers, wheeled and track grapple 
        skidders, yarders, bulldozers, excavators, and log loaders;
            ``(C) the bucking or converting of timber into logs, poles, 
        ties, bolts, pulpwood, chemical wood, excelsior wood, cordwood, 
        fence posts, or similar products;
            ``(D) the collecting, skidding, yarding, loading, 
        transporting and unloading of such products in connection with 
        logging;
            ``(E) the constructing, repairing and maintaining of roads 
        or camps used in connection with logging; the constructing, 
        repairing, and maintenance of machinery or equipment used in 
        logging; and
            ``(F) other work performed in connection with logging; and
    ``(2) does not include the manual use of chain saws to fell and 
process timber and the use of cable skidders to bring the timber to the 
landing.''; and
            (2) in section 13(c) (29 U.S.C. 211(c)), by adding at the 
        end the following:
            ``(8) The provisions of section 12 relating to child labor 
        shall apply to an employee who is 16 or 17 years old employed 
        in a logging operation in an occupation that the Secretary of 
        Labor finds and declares to be particularly hazardous for the 
        employment of individuals ages 16 or 17, except where such 
        employee is employed exclusively by his or her parent or by a 
        person standing in the place of his or her parent in a logging 
        operation owned or operated by such parent or person.''.

SEC. 3. INTERSTATE COMPACT TEST PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier 
Safety Administration shall establish a test program to allow States 
and the District of Columbia to enter into interstate compacts with 
contiguous States to standardize the requirements for operators of 
commercial motor vehicles in interstate commerce.
    (b) Mutual Recognition of Licenses.--A commercial driver's license 
issued by one State participating in an interstate compact under 
subsection (a) shall be recognized as valid in every State that is 
participating in such compact.
    (c) Standards.--In developing an interstate compact under this 
section, participating States shall provide for minimum licensure 
standards acceptable for interstate travel under this section, which 
may include, for drivers under 21 years of age--
            (1) age restrictions;
            (2) distance from origin (measured in air miles);
            (3) reporting requirements; or
            (4) additional hours of service restrictions.

SEC. 4. APPROVAL.

    An interstate compact described in section 3 may not go into effect 
until it has been approved by the governor of each State (or the Mayor 
of the District of Columbia, if applicable) that is a party to the 
agreement, after consultation with the Secretary of Transportation and 
the Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.
                                 <all>
