[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3088 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3088

     To provide a deadline for compliance with an alternate safety 
               compliance program and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 23, 2016

Mr. Sullivan (for himself, Ms. Cantwell, and Ms. Murkowski) introduced 
the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee 
                on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To provide a deadline for compliance with an alternate safety 
               compliance program and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DEADLINE FOR COMPLIANCE WITH ALTERNATIVE SAFETY COMPLIANCE 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 4503(d) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the following:
    ``(1) After the later of January 1, 2020, or the end of the 3-year 
period beginning on the date the Secretary issues a final rule 
establishing an alternate safety compliance program developed in 
cooperation with the commercial fishing industry for fishing vessels, 
fish processing vessels, or fish tender vessels to which section 
4502(b) of this title applies, such a vessel shall comply with such 
program, if the vessel--
            ``(A) is at least 50 feet overall in length;
            ``(B) is built before July 1, 2012; and
            ``(C) is 25 years of age or older.
    ``(2) If, after such alternate safety compliance program is 
established, there are substantial changes to the requirements of the 
alternate safety compliance program, the Secretary shall provide at 
least three years for fishing vessels, fish processing vessels, or fish 
tender vessels to which section 4502(b) of this title applies to comply 
with such changes.''.

SEC. 2. COORDINATION.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating 
shall publish and disseminate a Coast Guard policy to standardize 
coordination, outreach, and design of the alternate compliance program 
referred to in section 4503(d)(1) of title 46, United States Code, to 
ensure consistency between Coast Guard Districts.

SEC. 3. PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating 
shall publish a public memorandum for the fishing, shipbuilding, and 
maritime industry and the public including guidance, timelines, and 
opportunities for public engagement.

SEC. 4. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    No later than June 1, 2018, the Secretary of the department in 
which the Coast Guard is operating in coordination with the head of the 
National Institute of Occupational Health and Safety, shall submit a 
report to Congress on the progress of the design and implementation of 
the alternate compliance program referred to in section 4503(d)(1) of 
title 46, United States Code, which shall include--
            (1) meeting summaries, including, the date, location, 
        industry represented and a summary of topics, from--
                    (A) a public forum, including fish expos, 
                conferences, and other appropriate venues;
                    (B) meetings with fleet-specific industry 
                representatives;
                    (C) meetings with fleet-specific industry 
                representatives where the design and implementation of 
                fleet-specific annexes was discussed; and
                    (D) outreach completed in by each District 
                Coordinator;
            (2) all documents provided to the public, including drafts 
        of area plans and annexes;
            (3) a prioritized list of the high-risk fisheries being 
        evaluated by the Coast Guard for additional safety 
        requirements;
            (4) a list of all fleets where annexes are currently being 
        designed, or may be designed, including rationale for each 
        fleet's inclusion in the list;
            (5) a summary of outreach to naval architects or other 
        experts involved in the design of the program;
            (6) references for data and analyses being used to 
        determine safety criteria in both area plans as well as 
        annexes; and
            (7) a summary of appropriations used to design and 
        implement the program, as well as appropriations needed to 
        complete the program under the deadline prescribed.
                                 <all>
