[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 907 Engrossed in House (EH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 907

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To improve defense cooperation between the United States and the 
                      Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``United States-Jordan Defense 
Cooperation Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) As of January 22, 2015, the United States Government 
        has provided $3,046,343,000 in assistance to the Syria 
        humanitarian response, of which nearly $467,000,000 has been to 
        the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
            (2) As of January 2015, according to the United Nations 
        High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), there are 621,937 
        registered Syrian refugees in Jordan and 83.8 percent of those 
        refugees live outside refugee camps.
            (3) In 2000, the United States and Jordan signed a free-
        trade agreement that went into force in 2001.
            (4) In 1996, the United States granted Jordan major non-
        NATO ally status.
            (5) Jordan is suffering from the Syrian refugee crisis and 
        the threat of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).
            (6) The Government of Jordan was elected as a non-permanent 
        member of the United Nations Security Council beginning in 
        January 2014 and terminating in December 2015.
            (7) Enhanced support for defense cooperation with Jordan is 
        important to the national security of the United States, 
        including through creation of a status in law for Jordan 
        similar to the countries in the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization, Japan, Australia, the Republic of Korea, Israel, 
        and New Zealand, with respect to consideration by Congress of 
        foreign military sales to Jordan.
            (8) The Colorado National Guard's relationship with the 
        Jordanian military provides a significant benefit to both the 
        United States and Jordan.
            (9) Jordanian pilot Moaz al-Kasasbeh was brutally murdered 
        by ISIL.
            (10) On February 3, 2015, Secretary of State John Kerry and 
        Jordanian Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh signed a new Memorandum 
        of Understanding that reflects the intention to increase United 
        States assistance to the Government of Jordan from $660,000,000 
        to $1,000,000,000 per year for the years 2015 through 2017.

SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It should be the policy of the United States to support the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in its response to the Syrian refugee 
crisis, provide necessary assistance to alleviate the domestic burden 
to provide basic needs for the assimilated Syrian refugees, cooperate 
with Jordan to combat the terrorist threat from the Islamic State of 
Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) or other terrorist organizations, and help 
secure the border between Jordan and its neighbors Syria and Iraq.

SEC. 4. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that expeditious consideration of 
certifications of letters of offer to sell defense articles, defense 
services, design and construction services, and major defense equipment 
to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan under section 36(b) of the Arms 
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776(b)) is fully consistent with United 
States security and foreign policy interests and the objectives of 
world peace and security.

SEC. 5. ENHANCED DEFENSE COOPERATION.

    (a) In General.--For the 3-year period beginning on the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan shall be treated 
as if it were a country listed in the provisions of law described in 
subsection (b) for purposes of applying and administering such 
provisions of law.
    (b) Provisions of Law.--The provisions of law described in this 
subsection are the following provisions of the Arms Export Control Act:
            (1) Subsections (b)(2), (d)(2)(B), (d)(3)(A)(i), and (d)(5) 
        of section 3 (22 U.S.C. 2753).
            (2) Subsections (e)(2)(A), (h)(1)(A), (h)(2) of section 21 
        (22 U.S.C. 2761).
            (3) Subsections (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(6), (c), and (d)(2)(A) 
        of section 36 (22 U.S.C. 2776).
            (4) Section 62(c)(1) (22 U.S.C. 2796a(c)(1)).
            (5) Section 63(a)(2) (22 U.S.C. 2796b(a)(2)).

SEC. 6. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.

    The Secretary of State is authorized, subject to the availability 
of appropriations, to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to increase economic support funds, 
military cooperation, including joint military exercises, personnel 
exchanges, support for international peacekeeping missions, and 
enhanced strategic dialogue.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 7, 2015.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 907

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

   To improve defense cooperation between the United States and the 
                      Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
