[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3481 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3481

To require States to report to the Attorney General certain information 
 regarding shooting incidents involving law enforcement officers, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 10, 2015

 Mr. Castro of Texas introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                   to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require States to report to the Attorney General certain information 
 regarding shooting incidents involving law enforcement officers, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Police Reporting Information, Data, 
and Evidence Act of 2015'' or the ``PRIDE Act''.

SEC. 2. COMMUNITY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT PARTNERSHIP GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Attorney General shall make grants to 
eligible States and Indian tribes to be used for the activities 
described in subsection (c).
    (b) Eligibility.--
            (1) In general.--In order to be eligible to receive a grant 
        under this section a State or Indian tribe shall--
                    (A) report incidents in accordance with paragraph 
                (2); and
                    (B) demonstrate that the use-of-force policy for 
                law enforcement officers in the State or Indian tribe 
                is publicly available.
            (2) Reporting of incidents.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and each year 
                thereafter, and subject to subparagraph (C), a State or 
                Indian tribe shall report to the Attorney General 
                information on--
                            (i) any incident involving the shooting of 
                        a civilian by a law enforcement officer;
                            (ii) any incident involving the shooting of 
                        a law enforcement officer by a civilian;
                            (iii) any incident in which use of force by 
                        a law enforcement officer against a civilian 
                        results in serious bodily injury (as defined in 
                        section 2246 of title 18, United States Code) 
                        or death; and
                            (iv) any incident in which use of force by 
                        a civilian against a law enforcement officer 
                        results in serious bodily injury (as defined in 
                        section 2246 of title 18, United States Code) 
                        or death.
                    (B) Required information.--For each incident 
                reported under subparagraph (A), the information 
                reported to the Attorney General shall include, at a 
                minimum--
                            (i) the gender, race, ethnicity, and age of 
                        each individual who was shot, injured, or 
                        killed;
                            (ii) the date, time, and location of the 
                        incident;
                            (iii) whether the civilian was armed, and, 
                        if so, the type of weapon the civilian had;
                            (iv) the type of force used against the 
                        officer, the civilian, or both, including the 
                        types of weapons used;
                            (v) the number of officers involved in the 
                        incident;
                            (vi) the number of civilians involved in 
                        the incident; and
                            (vii) a brief description regarding the 
                        circumstances surrounding the incident.
                    (C) Incidents reported under death in custody 
                reporting act.--A State is not required to include in a 
                report under subparagraph (A) an incident reported by 
                the State in accordance with section 20104(a)(2) of the 
                Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 
                (42 U.S.C. 13704(a)(2)) before the date of the report 
                under subparagraph (A).
    (c) Activities Described.--A grant made under this section may be 
used by a State or Indian tribe for--
            (1) the cost of complying with the reporting requirements 
        described in subsection (b)(2);
            (2) the cost of establishing necessary systems required to 
        investigate and report incidents as required under subsection 
        (b)(2);
            (3) public awareness campaigns designed to gain information 
        from the public on use of force against police officers, 
        including shootings, which may include tip lines, hotlines, and 
        public service announcements; and
            (4) use of force training for law enforcement agencies and 
        personnel, including de-escalation and bias training.
    (d) Independent Audit and Review.--Not later than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter, the Attorney 
General shall conduct an audit and review of the information provided 
under subsection (b)(2) to determine whether each State or Indian tribe 
receiving a grant under this section is in compliance with the 
requirements of this section.
    (e) Public Availability of Data.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter, the Attorney 
        General shall publish, and make available to the public, a 
        report containing the data reported to the Attorney General 
        under subsection (b)(2).
            (2) Privacy protections.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        be construed to supersede the requirements or limitations under 
        section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as 
        the ``Privacy Act of 1974'').
    (f) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Attorney General, in coordination with the Director of 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall issue guidance on best 
practices relating to establishing standard data collection systems 
that capture the information required to be reported under subsection 
(b)(2), which shall include standard and consistent definitions for 
terms, including the term ``use of force''.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Attorney General such sums as are necessary to 
carry out this Act.
                                 <all>
