[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2525 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2525

 To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition 
                  and celebration of Hero Street USA.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 21, 2015

  Mrs. Bustos (for herself, Ms. Linda T. Sanchez of California, Mrs. 
   Napolitano, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Aguilar, Mr. 
   Gallego, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Becerra, Ms. 
Velazquez, Mr. Sires, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Swalwell of California, 
  Mr. Vela, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. 
 Cuellar, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Hinojosa, 
Mr. Pocan, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. 
 Ruiz, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Costa, Ms. Kuster, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Brownley 
   of California, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Loretta Sanchez of 
California, Mr. Pierluisi, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Ms. 
Herrera Beutler, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. 
Serrano, Mr. Walz, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Yoder, Mrs. Roby, 
    Mr. Ashford, Ms. Edwards, Ms. Adams, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. 
McNerney, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Quigley, Mr. 
  Ruppersberger, Mr. Higgins, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. 
 Jones, Mrs. Kirkpatrick, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. 
Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Kilmer, Mrs. Torres, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. 
   Perlmutter, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Bost, and Mr. Kinzinger of Illinois) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                           Financial Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition 
                  and celebration of Hero Street USA.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Hero Street USA Commemorative Coin 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) In 1968, 2nd Street of Silvis, Illinois, was renamed 
        Hero Street, a tribute to the sacrifice and patriotism of its 
        residents.
            (2) Many Mexican families immigrated to Silvis during the 
        1920s and 1930s, seeking work with the local railroad line, and 
        settled on 2nd Street, where low-cost housing was available to 
        railroad workers and their families.
            (3) When the United States entered World War II, the young 
        men of 2nd Street answered the Nation's call to serve. Of this 
        first generation of 2nd Street residents, six were killed in 
        World War II and two in the Korean Conflict.
            (4) Despite tragedy, a strong tradition of military service 
        persisted within this small, historically Latino community as 
        the younger generations enlisted or were drafted.
            (5) Today, over 100 men and women from Hero Street have 
        served in the Armed Forces of the United States, a 
        concentration higher than any other street comparable in size.
            (6) The legacy of these brave soldiers has transformed this 
        small street into a point of national pride, and a park and 
        monument have been built in Silvis to honor the 8 deceased 
        service members as well as all who have served in the United 
        States Military.
            (7) 2018 will mark the 50th anniversary of Hero Street's 
        renaming.

SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.

    (a) Denominations.--The Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in 
this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall mint and issue the 
following coins in commemoration of the semi centennial of the naming 
of Hero Street:
            (1) $5 gold coins.--Not more than 50,000 $5 coins, which 
        shall--
                    (A) weigh 8.359 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
                    (C) contain 90 percent gold and 10 percent alloy.
            (2) $1 silver coins.--Not more than 400,000 $1 coins, which 
        shall--
                    (A) weigh 26,73 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
                    (C) contain at least 90 percent silver with the 
                remainder copper.
            (3) Half-dollar clad coins.--Not more than 750,000 half-
        dollar coins which shall--
                    (A) weigh 11.34 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
                    (C) be minted to the specifications for half-dollar 
                coins contained in section 5112(b) of title 31, United 
                States Code.
    (b) Legal Tender.--The coins minted under this Act shall be legal 
tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, 
United States Code, all coins minted under this Act shall be considered 
to be numismatic items.

SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COINS.

    (a) In General.--The design of the coin minted under this Act shall 
be emblematic of Hero Street USA.
    (b) Designation and Inscription.--On each coin minted under this 
Act, there shall be--
            (1) a designation of the value of the coin;
            (2) an inscription of the year ``2018''; and
            (3) inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God We 
        Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E Pluribus Unum''.
    (c) Selection.--The design for the coins minted under this Act 
shall be--
            (1) selected by the Secretary, after consultation with the 
        Commission of Fine Arts; and
            (2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.

    (a) Quality of Coins.--Coins minted under this Act shall be issued 
in uncirculated and proof qualities.
    (b) Mint Facility.--Only 1 facility of the United States Mint may 
be used to strike any particular quality of coin under this Act.
    (c) Period for Issuance.--The Secretary may issue coins under this 
Act only during the period beginning on January 1, 2018, and ending on 
December 31, 2018.

SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.

    (a) Sale Price.--The coins issued under this Act shall be sold by 
the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of--
            (1) the face value of the coin;
            (2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a) with respect to 
        such coins; and
            (3) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including 
        labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
        marketing, and shipping).
    (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins 
issued under this Act at a reasonable discount.
    (c) Prepaid Orders.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders 
        for the coins minted under this Act before the issuance of the 
        coins.
            (2) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders 
        under paragraph (1) shall be at a reasonable discount.

SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.

    (a) In General.--All sales of coins issued under this Act shall 
include a surcharge of--
            (1) $35 per coin for the $5 coin;
            (2) $10 per coin for the $1 coin; and
            (3) $5 per coin for the half-dollar coin.
    (b) Distribution.--Subject to section 5134(f) of title 31, United 
States Code, all surcharges received by the Secretary from the sale of 
coins issued under this Act shall be paid to the Wounded Warrior 
Project to carry out the organization's mission of honoring and 
empowering our Nation's wounded warriors.

SEC. 8. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.

    The Secretary shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure 
that--
            (1) minting and issuing coins under this Act will not 
        result in any net cost to the Federal Government; and
            (2) no funds, including applicable surcharges, shall be 
        disbursed to any recipient designated in section 7 until the 
        total cost of designing and issuing all of the coins authorized 
        by this Act (including labor, materials, dies, use of 
        machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping) is 
        recovered by the United States Treasury, consistent with 
        sections 5112(m) and 5134(f) of title 31, United States Code.
                                 <all>
