[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5470 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5470

   To amend chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to require a 
 criminal background check to be conducted before a federally licensed 
    firearms importer, manufacturer, or dealer may transfer a large 
capacity ammunition feeding device to a non-licensee, and to prohibit a 
   semiautomatic assault weapon or large capacity ammunition feeding 
    device from being so transferred until the Attorney General has 
   verified that the prospective transferee has truthfully answered 
 questions about whether the prospective transferee has been contacted 
            recently by Federal law enforcement authorities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 14, 2016

 Ms. Jackson Lee (for herself and Ms. Brown of Florida) introduced the 
  following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to require a 
 criminal background check to be conducted before a federally licensed 
    firearms importer, manufacturer, or dealer may transfer a large 
capacity ammunition feeding device to a non-licensee, and to prohibit a 
   semiautomatic assault weapon or large capacity ammunition feeding 
    device from being so transferred until the Attorney General has 
   verified that the prospective transferee has truthfully answered 
 questions about whether the prospective transferee has been contacted 
            recently by Federal law enforcement authorities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Stop Mass Killings By Violent 
Terrorists Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds as follows:
            (1) In 2015, there were 64 shootings at elementary and 
        secondary schools in the United States, and 372 mass shootings, 
        which claimed the lives of 475 persons and left 1,870 victims 
        injured.
            (2) More than 300,000 persons lost their lives as a result 
        of gun violence during the period from 2005 through 2015.
            (3) On June 13, 2016, in Orlando, Florida, 49 persons were 
        killed in the deadliest mass shooting in the history of the 
        United States.

SEC. 3. FEDERAL FIREARMS LICENSEES REQUIRED TO CONDUCT CRIMINAL 
              BACKGROUND CHECK BEFORE TRANSFER OF LARGE CAPACITY 
              AMMUNITION FEEDING DEVICE TO NON-LICENSEE.

    Section 922(t) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(7) For purposes of this subsection:
            ``(A) The term `firearm' includes a large capacity 
        ammunition feeding device.
            ``(B) The term `large capacity ammunition feeding device' 
        has the meaning given in section 921(a)(31) of this title, as 
        in effect on the date of the enactment of the Violent Crime and 
        Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322).''.

SEC. 4. PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF SEMIAUTOMATIC ASSAULT WEAPON OR 
              LARGE CAPACITY AMMUNITION FEEDING DEVICE BY FEDERALLY 
              LICENSED FIREARMS IMPORTER, MANUFACTURER, OR DEALER TO 
              NON-LICENSEE UNTIL ANSWERS OF PROSPECTIVE TRANSFEREE TO 
              QUESTIONS ABOUT EXISTENCE AND NATURE OF RECENT CONTACTS 
              BY FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN 
              VERIFIED.

    Section 922(t) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by 
section 3 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(8) The Attorney General shall ensure that the information 
required to be provided by a person not licensed under this chapter who 
is seeking to obtain a firearm from a licensed importer, licensed 
manufacturer, or licensed dealer shall include written responses to 
such questions as the Attorney General shall develop concerning the 
existence and nature of any contact the person has had with any Federal 
law enforcement authority in the prior 24 months.
    ``(9) If the firearm is a semiautomatic assault weapon (as defined 
in section 921(a)(30) of this title, as in effect on the date of the 
enactment of the Violent Crime and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public 
Law 103-322)) or a large capacity ammunition feeding device--
            ``(A) paragraph (1)(B)(ii) of this subsection shall not 
        apply; and
            ``(B) the system shall not indicate to the transferor that 
        the transferor may proceed with the transfer unless the 
        Attorney General has verified the truthfulness of the written 
        responses given by such other person to the questions referred 
        to in paragraph (8) of this subsection.
    ``(10) If a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed 
dealer has presented the prospective transferee of a semiautomatic 
assault weapon or large capacity ammunition feeding device with the 
questions referred to in paragraph (8), and the prospective transferee 
refuses or fails to answer the questions in writing, the licensee shall 
submit to the Attorney General such information as the prospective 
transferee has provided for further review or investigation.''.
                                 <all>
