[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 402 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 402

 To amend title 18, United States Code, to provide a national standard 
 in accordance with which nonresidents of a State may carry concealed 
                         firearms in the State.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 16, 2015

 Mr. Nugent (for himself, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Benishek, Mrs. Black, Mr. 
 Carter of Texas, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Cook, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. 
Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, 
   Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Fincher, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. 
 Gibson, Mr. Hanna, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Jolly, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, 
   Mr. McClintock, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Rogers of 
 Alabama, Mr. Rooney of Florida, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. 
 Stewart, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Williams, Mr. 
 Womack, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. Pompeo, Mr. Crawford, and Mr. Nunes) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                             the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 18, United States Code, to provide a national standard 
 in accordance with which nonresidents of a State may carry concealed 
                         firearms in the State.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Right-to-Carry Reciprocity 
Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. RECIPROCITY FOR THE CARRYING OF CERTAIN CONCEALED FIREARMS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 926C the following:
``Sec. 926D. Reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms
    ``(a) Notwithstanding any provision of the law of any State or 
political subdivision thereof (except as provided in subsection (b)), a 
person who is not prohibited by Federal law from possessing, 
transporting, shipping, or receiving a firearm, and who is carrying a 
valid identification document containing a photograph of the person, 
and a valid license or permit which is issued pursuant to the law of a 
State and which permits the person to carry a concealed firearm, may 
possess or carry a concealed handgun (other than a machine gun or 
destructive device) that has been shipped or transported in interstate 
or foreign commerce, in any State, other than the State of residence of 
the person, that--
            ``(1) has a statute that allows residents of the State to 
        obtain licenses or permits to carry concealed firearms; or
            ``(2) does not prohibit the carrying of concealed firearms 
        by residents of the State for lawful purposes.
    ``(b) The possession or carrying of a concealed handgun in a State 
under this section shall be subject to the same conditions and 
limitations, except as to eligibility to possess or carry, imposed by 
or under Federal or State law or the law of a political subdivision of 
a State, that apply to the possession or carrying of a concealed 
handgun by residents of the State or political subdivision who are 
licensed by the State or political subdivision to do so, or not 
prohibited by the State from doing so.
    ``(c) In subsection (a), the term `identification document' means a 
document made or issued by or under the authority of the United States 
Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State which, when 
completed with information concerning a particular individual, is of a 
type intended or commonly accepted for the purpose of identification of 
individuals.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for such chapter is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 926C the 
following:

``926D. Reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
