[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3448 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3448

 To amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to prohibit the taking of 
any endangered species or threatened species of fish or wildlife in the 
 United States as a trophy and the importation of any such trophy into 
               the United States, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 8, 2015

 Ms. Jackson Lee introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                   the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to prohibit the taking of 
any endangered species or threatened species of fish or wildlife in the 
 United States as a trophy and the importation of any such trophy into 
               the United States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cecil the Lion Endangered and 
Threatened Species Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION OF TAKING OR IMPORTING ANY ENDANGERED OR THREATENED 
              SPECIES AS A TROPHY.

    (a) Prohibition of Taking or Importing Any Trophy.--Section 9 of 
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1538) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Trophies.--It is unlawful for any person subject to the 
jurisdiction of the United States--
            ``(1) to take as a trophy within the United States or the 
        territorial sea of the United States any species of fish or 
        wildlife listed under section 4; or
            ``(2) to import into the United States any trophy of any 
        species of fish or wildlife listed under section 4.''.
    (b) Prohibition of Permits for Trophies.--Section 10(a) of the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1539(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``The Secretary may 
        permit'' and inserting ``Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the Secretary may permit''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary may not permit--
            ``(i) taking as a trophy any species of fish or wildlife 
        listed under section 4; or
            ``(ii) importing into the United States any trophy of any 
        species of fish or wildlife listed under section 4 and taken 
        after the date of the enactment of the Cecil the Lion 
        Endangered and Threatened Species Act of 2015.
    ``(B) Any person seeking to import such a trophy shall submit to 
the customs officer concerned at the time of entry of the trophy such 
documentation as the Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with 
the Secretary of the Interior, shall by regulation require as being 
necessary to establish that the trophy was taken before the date of the 
enactment of the Cecil the Lion Endangered and Threatened Species Act 
of 2015.''.
    (c) Antiques.--Section 10(h)(1) of the Endangered Species Act of 
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1539(h)(1)) is amended by striking ``Sections 4(d), 
9(a), and 9(c) do not apply'' and inserting ``Sections 4(d), 9(a), 
9(c), and 9(h)(2) do not apply''.
    (d) Definition.--Section 3 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
(16 U.S.C. 1532) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (21) as paragraph (22); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (20) the following:
            ``(21) The term `trophy' means any fish or wildlife taken 
        for sport or procurement of a souvenir.''.
                                 <all>
