[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4529 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4529

 To amend title II of the Social Security Act to provide for an annual 
  increase in the contribution and benefit base, to exclude a certain 
number of childcare years from the benefit computation formula, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 10, 2016

Mr. Murphy of Florida introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                   to the Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title II of the Social Security Act to provide for an annual 
  increase in the contribution and benefit base, to exclude a certain 
number of childcare years from the benefit computation formula, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Social Security Parent Penalty 
Repeal Act''.

SEC. 2. ANNUAL INCREASE IN CONTRIBUTION AND BENEFIT BASE.

    (a) Annual Increase.--Section 230(a) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 430(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) The Commissioner shall determine and publish in the Federal 
Register on or before November 1 of each calendar year the contribution 
and benefit base determined under subsection (b) which shall be 
effective with respect to remuneration paid after such calendar year 
and taxable years beginning after such calendar year.''.
    (b) Rate of Annual Increase.--Section 230(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
430(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b)(1) The amount of such contribution and benefit base 
determined under this subsection shall be the product of the 
contribution and benefit base in effect in the year in which the 
determination is made multiplied by the larger of--
            ``(A) 1, plus the percentage that is equal to twice the 
        annual national average wage increase; or
            ``(B) 1.03,
with such product, if not a multiple of $300, being rounded to the next 
higher multiple of $300 where such product is a multiple of $150 but 
not of $300 and to the nearest multiple of $300 in any other case.
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `annual national 
average wage increase' means the quotient (expressed as a percentage) 
of--
            ``(A) the amount by which the national average wage index 
        (as defined in section 209(k)(1)) for the calendar year before 
        the calendar year in which the determination under subsection 
        (a) is made exceeds the national average wage index (as so 
        defined) for the calendar year that is 2 years before the 
        calendar year in which such determination is made, divided by
            ``(B) the national average wage index (as so defined) for 
        the calendar year that is 2 years before the calendar year in 
        which such determination is made.''.
    (c) Conforming and Technical Amendments.--Section 230 of such Act 
(42 U.S.C. 430), as amended by subsections (a) and (b), is further 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c); and
            (3) in subsection (c) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)), 
        by striking ``Public Law 93-406'' and inserting ``the Employee 
        Retirement Income Security Act of 1974''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to renumeration paid, and taxable years beginning, 
after calendar year 2016.

SEC. 3. EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN CHILDCARE YEARS FROM BENEFIT COMPUTATION 
              FORMULA.

    (a) In General.--Section 215(b)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 415(b)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``The number'' and 
        inserting ``Subject to subparagraph (C), the number''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(C)(i) The number of an individual's benefit computation years 
determined under subparagraph (A) shall be further reduced (after 
application of the reduction under such subparagraph) by the number of 
childcare years of the individual (not exceeding 5), except that not 
more than 2 years may be determined to be a childcare year on the basis 
of the individual's status as a primary caregiver for the same child.
    ``(ii) For purposes of this subparagraph, the term `childcare year' 
means, with respect to an individual, an elapsed year of the 
individual--
            ``(I) during which the individual is the primary caregiver 
        for a child under 6 years of age; and
            ``(II) for which the total of the individual's wages and 
        self-employment income is $0.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to the computation or recomputation of a primary 
insurance amount after calendar year 2016.
                                 <all>
