[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4401 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4401

 To authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide countering 
     violent extremism training to Department of Homeland Security 
   representatives at State and local fusion centers, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 1, 2016

Mr. Loudermilk (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Katko, Mr. Hurd of Texas, 
   Ms. McSally, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Reichert, Ms. Loretta Sanchez of 
   California, Mr. Keating, Mr. Vela, and Mr. Payne) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Homeland 
                                Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide countering 
     violent extremism training to Department of Homeland Security 
   representatives at State and local fusion centers, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Amplifying Local Efforts to Root out 
Terror Act of 2016'' or the ``ALERT Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. COUNTERING VIOLENT EXTREMISM TRAINING.

    (a) Authorization of Training.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
is authorized to provide training for personnel, including Department 
of Homeland Security personnel, State, local, tribal, and territorial 
representatives at State and major urban area fusion centers for the 
purpose of administering community awareness briefings and related 
activities in furtherance of the Department's efforts to counter 
violent extremism, identify and report suspicious activities, and 
increase awareness of and more quickly identify terrorism threats, 
including the travel or attempted travel of individuals from the United 
States to support a foreign terrorist organization (as such term is 
described in section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1189)) abroad.
    (b) Coordination.--To the extent practicable, in providing the 
training under subsection (a), the Secretary shall coordinate with the 
heads of other Federal agencies engaged in community outreach related 
to countering violent extremism and shall also coordinate with such 
agencies in the administration of related activities, including 
community awareness briefings.

SEC. 3. COUNTERING VIOLENT EXTREMISM ASSESSMENT.

    (a) Assessment Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
consultation with appropriate State, local, tribal, and territorial 
representatives, shall assess the efforts of the Department of Homeland 
Security to support countering violent extremism at the State, local, 
tribal, and territorial levels. Such assessment shall include each of 
the following:
            (1) A cataloging of departmental efforts to assist State, 
        local, tribal, and territorial governments in countering 
        violent extremism.
            (2) A review of cooperative agreements between the 
        Department and such governments relating to countering violent 
        extremism.
            (3) An evaluation of departmental plans and any potential 
        opportunities to better support such governments that are in 
        furtherance of the Department's countering violent extremism 
        objectives and are consistent with all relevant constitutional, 
        legal, and privacy protections.
    (b) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 150 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act and consistent with the protection of 
classified information, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit 
to the appropriate congressional committees the findings of the 
assessment required under subsection (a) together with any related 
information regarding best practices for countering violent extremism 
at the State, local, tribal, and territorial levels.

SEC. 4. DEPARTMENT-SPONSORED CLEARANCES.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify the appropriate 
congressional committees of the number of employees of State, local, 
tribal, and territorial governments with security clearances sponsored 
by the Department of Homeland Security. Such notification shall include 
a detailed list of the agencies that employ such employees, the level 
of clearance held by such employees, and whether such employees are 
assigned as representatives to State and major urban area fusion 
centers.

SEC. 5. PROHIBITION ON ADDITIONAL FUNDING.

    No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this Act. This Act shall be carried out using amounts otherwise 
authorized to be appropriated or made available to the Department of 
Homeland Security.

SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
            (2) The term ``violent extremism'' means ideologically 
        motivated international terrorism or domestic terrorism, as 
        such terms are defined in section 2331 of title 18, United 
        States Code.
                                 <all>
