[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5634 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 518
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5634

                          [Report No. 114-668]

 Making appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              July 6, 2016

Mr. Carter of Texas, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
following bill; which was committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of Homeland Security for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

    DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT, OPERATIONS, INTELLIGENCE, AND OVERSIGHT

                 Departmental Management and Operations

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management and Operations 
for operations and support, as authorized by law, $822,992,000, of 
which $186,361,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018: 
Provided, That of the total made available under this heading, not more 
than $32,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management and Operations 
for procurement, construction, and improvements, as authorized by law, 
$18,839,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management and Operations 
for research and development, and Department-wide technology 
investments, $2,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

                        Analysis and Operations

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses for intelligence analysis and operations 
coordination activities, as authorized by title II of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.), $265,719,000, of which 
$110,091,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, 
That not to exceed $3,825 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.), $157,144,000, of which not to exceed $300,000 may be used 
for certain confidential operational expenses, including the payment of 
informants, to be expended at the direction of the Inspector General.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101.  Not later than 30 days after the last day of each month, 
the Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Homeland Security 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a monthly budget and staffing report 
that includes total obligations of the Department for that month and 
for the fiscal year at the appropriation and program, project, and 
activity levels, by the source year of the appropriation: Provided, 
That total obligations for staffing shall also be provided by 
subcategory of on-board and funded full-time equivalent staffing 
levels, respectively: Provided further, That the report shall specify 
the number of, and total obligations for, contract employees for each 
office of the Department.
    Sec. 102. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a 
report not later than October 15, 2017, to the Inspector General of the 
Department of Homeland Security listing all grants and contracts 
awarded by any means other than full and open competition during fiscal 
year 2017.
    (b) The Inspector General shall review the report required by 
subsection (a) to assess Departmental compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations and report the results of that review to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate not 
later than February 15, 2018.
    Sec. 103.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall require that 
all contracts of the Department of Homeland Security that provide award 
fees link such fees to successful acquisition outcomes, which shall be 
specified in terms of cost, schedule, and performance.
    Sec. 104.  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with 
the Secretary of the Treasury, shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate of any 
proposed transfers of funds available under section 9703(g)(4)(B) of 
title 31, United States Code (as added by Public Law 102-393) from the 
Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund to any agency within the 
Department of Homeland Security: Provided, That none of the funds 
identified for such a transfer may be obligated until the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are 
notified of the proposed transfers.
    Sec. 105.  The Under Secretary for Management shall include in the 
President's budget proposal for fiscal year 2018, submitted pursuant to 
section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, a Comprehensive 
Acquisition Status Report, which shall include the information required 
under the heading ``Office of the Under Secretary for Management'' 
under title I of division D of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2012 (Public Law 112-74), and shall submit quarterly updates to such 
report not later than 45 days after the completion of each quarter.

                                TITLE II

               SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND INVESTIGATIONS

                   U.S. Customs and Border Protection

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses for U.S. Customs and Border Protection for 
enforcement of laws relating to border security, immigration, customs, 
agricultural inspections, and regulatory activities related to plant 
and animal imports; the provision of air and marine support to Federal, 
State, and local agencies in the enforcement or administration of laws 
enforced by the Department of Homeland Security; other law enforcement 
and emergency humanitarian efforts, at the discretion of the Secretary 
of Homeland Security; transportation of unaccompanied minor aliens; 
purchase and lease of up to 7,500 (6,500 for replacement only) police-
type vehicles; the maintenance or operation of aircraft and unmanned 
aircraft systems; and contracting with individuals for personal 
services abroad; $10,945,357,000, of which $3,274,000 shall be derived 
from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for administrative expenses 
related to the collection of the Harbor Maintenance Fee pursuant to 
section 9505(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 
9505(c)(3)) and notwithstanding section 1511(e)(1) of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); of which $1,362,683,000 
shall be available until September 30, 2018; of which not to exceed 
$34,425 shall be for official reception and representation expenses; of 
which such sums as become available in the Customs User Fee Account, 
except sums subject to section 13031(f)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(f)(3)), shall be 
derived from that account; of which not to exceed $150,000 shall be 
available for payment for rental space in connection with preclearance 
operations; and of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be for awards 
of compensation to informants, to be accounted for solely under the 
certificate of the Secretary of Homeland Security.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses for U.S. Customs and Border Protection for 
procurement, construction, and improvements, including procurements to 
buy, maintain, or operate aircraft and unmanned aircraft systems, 
$260,883,000, of which $104,392,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2019, and of which $156,491,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

           United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses for United States Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement for enforcement of immigration and customs laws, detention 
and removals, investigations, including intellectual property rights 
and overseas vetted units operations, and transportation of 
unaccompanied minor aliens; and purchase and lease of up to 3,790 
(2,350 for replacement only) police-type vehicles; $5,871,580,000; of 
which not to exceed $11,475 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided, That of the total amount provided, 
not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
conducting special operations under section 3131 of the Customs 
Enforcement Act of 1986 (19 U.S.C. 2081): Provided further, That of the 
total amount provided, not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be for awards of 
compensation to informants, to be accounted for solely under the 
certificate of the Secretary of Homeland Security: Provided further, 
That funding made available under this heading shall maintain a level 
of not less than 34,000 detention beds through September 30, 2017: 
Provided further, That of the total amount provided, $6,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for activities to enforce laws against 
forced child labor: Provided further, That of the total amount 
provided, $13,700,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018, 
for the Visa Security Program and investigations abroad: Provided 
further, That of the total amount provided, not to exceed $11,216,000 
shall be available to fund or reimburse other Federal agencies for the 
costs associated with the care, maintenance, and repatriation of 
smuggled aliens unlawfully present in the United States: Provided 
further, That of the total amount provided, not less than $5,400,000 
shall be used to facilitate agreements consistent with section 287(g) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1357(g)).

              procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses for United States Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement for procurement, construction, and improvements, as 
authorized by law, $32,800,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2019.

                 Transportation Security Administration

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security 
Administration related to providing civil aviation security services, 
surface transportation security, the development and implementation of 
intelligence and vetting activities, and transportation security 
support, pursuant to the Aviation and Transportation Security Act 
(Public Law 107-71; 115 Stat. 597; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note), 
$6,936,776,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, of which 
not to exceed $7,650 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses: Provided, That security service fees authorized under section 
44940 of title 49, United States Code, shall be credited to this 
appropriation as offsetting collections and shall be available only for 
aviation security: Provided further, That the sum appropriated under 
this heading from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-
dollar basis as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal 
year 2017 so as to result in a final fiscal year appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at not more than $4,806,776,000.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security 
Administration for procurement, construction, and improvements pursuant 
to the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (Public Law 107-71; 115 
Stat. 597; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note), $206,093,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2019.

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security 
Administration for research and development pursuant to the Aviation 
and Transportation Security Act (Public Law 107-71; 115 Stat. 597; 49 
U.S.C. 40101 note), $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018.

                              Coast Guard

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operations and maintenance of the 
Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase or lease of not to 
exceed 25 passenger motor vehicles, which shall be for replacement 
only; purchase or lease of small boats for contingent and emergent 
requirements (at a unit cost of no more than $700,000) and repairs and 
service-life replacements, not to exceed a total of $31,000,000; 
purchase or lease of boats necessary for overseas deployments and 
activities; purchase or lease of other equipment (at a unit cost of no 
more than $250,000); minor shore construction projects not exceeding 
$1,000,000 in total cost on any location; payments pursuant to section 
156 of Public Law 97-377 (42 U.S.C. 402 note; 96 Stat. 1920); and 
recreation and welfare; $6,977,815,000; of which $340,000,000 shall be 
for defense-related activities; of which $24,500,000 shall be derived 
from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to carry out the purposes of 
section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 
2712(a)(5)); and of which not to exceed $23,000 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses.

                environmental compliance and restoration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the environmental compliance 
and restoration functions of the Coast Guard under chapter 19 of title 
14, United States Code, $13,315,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021.

                            reserve training

    For necessary expenses of the Coast Guard Reserve, as authorized by 
law; operations and maintenance of the Coast Guard reserve program; 
personnel and training costs; and equipment and services; $112,302,000.

              acquisition, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of acquisition, construction, renovation, 
and improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities (including 
facilities at Department of Defense installations used by the Coast 
Guard), vessels, and aircraft, including equipment related thereto; and 
maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and 
equipment; as authorized by law; $1,257,155,000; of which $20,000,000 
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to carry out 
the purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 
U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)); of which $1,008,533,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2021; and of which $157,000,000, shall remain available 
until September 30, 2018, for National Security Cutter post-delivery 
activities.

              research, development, test, and evaluation

    For necessary expenses as authorized by law for applied scientific 
research, development, test, and evaluation; and for maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment; 
$18,319,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019, of which 
$500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to 
carry out the purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act 
of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)): Provided, That there may be credited to 
and used for the purposes of this appropriation funds received from 
State and local governments, other public authorities, private sources, 
and foreign countries for expenses incurred for research, development, 
testing, and evaluation.

                              retired pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations otherwise 
chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, payments under 
the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits Plans, 
payment for career status bonuses, concurrent receipts, and combat-
related special compensation as authorized by law, and payments for 
medical care of retired personnel and their dependents under chapter 55 
of title 10, United States Code, $1,666,940,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                      United States Secret Service

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the United State Secret Service, 
including purchase of not to exceed 652 vehicles for police-type use 
for replacement only; hire of passenger motor vehicles; purchase of 
motorcycles made in the United States; hire of aircraft; rental of 
buildings in the District of Columbia, and fencing, lighting, guard 
booths, and other facilities on private or other property not in 
Government ownership or control, as may be necessary to perform 
protective functions; conduct of and participation in firearms matches; 
presentation of awards; travel of United States Secret Service 
employees on protective missions without regard to the limitations on 
such expenditures in this or any other Act if notification is made in 
advance to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate; grants to conduct behavioral research 
in support of protective intelligence and operations; payment in 
advance for commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform 
protective functions; payment, without regard to section 5702 of title 
5, United States Code, of subsistence expenses of employees who are on 
protective missions, whether at or away from their duty stations; 
$1,839,722,000; of which not to exceed $19,125 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses; of which not to exceed $100,000 
shall be to provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign law 
enforcement organizations in counterfeit investigations; of which 
$2,366,000 shall be for forensic and related support of investigations 
of missing and exploited children; of which $6,000,000 shall be for a 
grant for activities related to investigations of missing and exploited 
children; of which not less than $12,000,000 shall be for activities 
related to training in electronic crimes investigations and forensics; 
and of which $36,966,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2018.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service for 
procurement, construction, and improvements, $90,127,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2019.

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service for 
research and development, $2,500,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201.  For fiscal year 2017, the overtime limitation prescribed 
in section 5(c)(1) of the Act of February 13, 1911 (19 U.S.C. 
267(c)(1)) shall be $45,000; and notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, none of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to 
compensate any employee of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, United 
States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or the United States Secret 
Service for overtime, from whatever source, in an amount that exceeds 
such limitation, except in individual cases determined by the Secretary 
of Homeland Security, or the designee of the Secretary, to be necessary 
for national security purposes, to prevent excessive costs, or in cases 
of immigration emergencies.
    Sec. 202.  The Border Patrol shall maintain an active duty presence 
of not less than 21,370 full-time equivalent agents protecting the 
borders of the United States in the fiscal year.
    Sec. 203.  Funding made available under the heading ``U.S. Customs 
and Border Protection -- Operations and Support'' shall be available 
for air and marine related customs expenses when necessary to maintain 
or temporarily increase operations in Puerto Rico.
    Sec. 204.  No aircraft or other related equipment, with the 
exception of aircraft that are one of a kind and have been identified 
as excess to U.S. Customs and Border Protection requirements and 
aircraft that have been damaged beyond repair, shall be transferred to 
any other Federal agency, department, or office outside of the 
Department of Homeland Security during fiscal year 2017 without prior 
notice to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 205.  Section 559(e)(3) of division F of Public Law 113-76 (6 
U.S.C. 211 note) is amended by striking subparagraph (D).
    Sec. 206.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall prioritize the 
identification and removal of aliens convicted of a crime by the 
severity of that crime.
    Sec. 207.  Nothing in this Act shall prevent United States 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement from exercising the authorities 
provided under immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17))) during 
priority operations pertaining to aliens convicted of a crime.
    Sec. 208.  Without regard to the limitation as to time and 
condition of section 503(d) of this Act, the Secretary may reprogram 
and transfer funds within and into ``United States Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement -- Operations and Support'' as necessary to ensure 
the detention of aliens prioritized for removal.
    Sec. 209.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide funding for the position of Public Advocate, or a successor 
position, within United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
    Sec. 210.  None of the funds provided under the heading ``United 
States Immigration and Customs Enforcement -- Operations and Support'' 
may be used to continue a delegation of law enforcement authority 
authorized under section 287(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
(8 U.S.C. 1357(g)) if the Department of Homeland Security Inspector 
General determines that the terms of the agreement governing the 
delegation of authority have been materially violated.
    Sec. 211.  None of the funds provided under the heading ``United 
States Immigration and Customs Enforcement -- Operations and Support'' 
may be used to continue any contract for the provision of detention 
services if the two most recent overall performance evaluations 
received by the contracted facility are less than ``adequate'' or the 
equivalent median score in any subsequent performance evaluation 
system.
    Sec. 212.  Of the funds provided under the heading ``Transportation 
Security Administration -- Procurement, Construction, and 
Improvements'', $49,199,000 shall not be available for obligation 
unless the Under Secretary for Management of the Department of Homeland 
Security certifies to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate at least 15 days in advance of any 
obligation of such funds that the funds will be expended for 
transportation security equipment that has an approved acquisition 
program baseline.
    Sec. 213.  Members of the United States House of Representatives 
and the United States Senate, including the leadership; the heads of 
Federal agencies and commissions, including the Secretary, Deputy 
Secretary, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries of the 
Department of Homeland Security; the United States Attorney General, 
Deputy Attorney General, Assistant Attorneys General, and the United 
States Attorneys; and senior members of the Executive Office of the 
President, including the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, shall not be exempt from Federal passenger and baggage 
screening.
    Sec. 214. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for any recruiting or hiring of personnel into the Transportation 
Security Administration that would cause the agency to exceed a 
staffing level of 45,000 full-time equivalent screeners.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to personnel hired as part-time 
employees.
    Sec. 215.  Any award by the Transportation Security Administration 
to deploy explosives detection systems shall be based on risk, the 
airport's current reliance on other screening solutions, lobby 
congestion resulting in increased security concerns, high injury rates, 
airport readiness, and increased cost effectiveness.
    Sec. 216.  Notwithstanding section 44923 of title 49, United States 
Code, for fiscal year 2017, any funds in the Aviation Security Capital 
Fund established by section 44923(h) of title 49, United States Code, 
may be used for the procurement and installation of explosives 
detection systems or for the issuance of other transaction agreements 
for the purpose of funding projects described in section 44923(a) of 
such title.
    Sec. 217.  The reporting requirement in the ninth proviso under the 
heading ``Transportation Security Administration -- Aviation Security'' 
in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public 
Law 114-113), shall apply in fiscal year 2017, except that the 
reference to ``this Act'' shall be treated as referring to this Act.
    Sec. 218.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used by the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration to implement, administer, or enforce, in abrogation of 
the responsibility described in section 44903(n)(1) of title 49, United 
States Code, any requirement that airport operators provide airport-
financed staffing to monitor exit points from the sterile area of any 
airport at which the Transportation Security Administration provided 
such monitoring as of December 1, 2013.
    Sec. 219.  None of the funds made available by this Act under the 
heading ``Coast Guard -- Operating Expenses'' shall be for expenses 
incurred for recreational vessels under section 12114 of title 46, 
United States Code, except to the extent fees are collected from owners 
of yachts and credited to the appropriation made available by this Act 
under the heading ``Coast Guard -- Operating Expenses'': Provided, To 
the extent such fees are insufficient to pay expenses of recreational 
vessel documentation under such section 12114, and there is a backlog 
of recreational vessel applications, then personnel performing non-
recreational vessel documentation functions under subchapter II of 
chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code, may perform documentation 
under section 12114.
    Sec. 220.  Of the funds provided under the heading ``Coast Guard -- 
Operating Expenses'', $85,000,000 shall be withheld from obligation for 
Coast Guard Headquarters Directorates until a future-years capital 
investment plan for fiscal years 2018 through 2022 is submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.
    Sec. 221.  Without regard to the limitation as to time and 
condition of section 503(d) of this Act, after June 30, up to 
$10,000,000 may be reprogrammed to or from the Military Pay and 
Allowances funding category within ``Coast Guard -- Operating 
Expenses'' in accordance with subsection (a) of section 503.
    Sec. 222.  Any funds appropriated to ``Coast Guard -- Acquisition, 
Construction, and Improvements'' for fiscal years 2002, 2003, 2004, 
2005, and 2006 for the 110-123 foot patrol boat conversion that are 
recovered, collected, or otherwise received as the result of 
negotiation, mediation, or litigation, shall be available until 
expended for the Fast Response Cutter program.
    Sec. 223.  The United States Secret Service is authorized to 
obligate funds in anticipation of reimbursements from Federal agencies 
and entities, as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, 
for personnel receiving training sponsored by the James J. Rowley 
Training Center, except that total obligations at the end of the fiscal 
year shall not exceed total budgetary resources available under the 
heading ``United States Secret Service -- Operations and Support'' at 
the end of the fiscal year.
    Sec. 224.  None of the funds made available to the United States 
Secret Service by this Act or by previous appropriations Acts may be 
made available for the protection of the head of a Federal agency other 
than the Secretary of Homeland Security: Provided, That the Director of 
the Secret Service may enter into agreements to provide such protection 
on a fully reimbursable basis.
    Sec. 225.  None of the funds made available to the United States 
Secret Service by this Act or by previous appropriations Acts may be 
obligated for the purpose of opening a new permanent domestic or 
overseas office or location unless the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified 15 days in 
advance of such obligation.
    Sec. 226.  For purposes of section 503(a)(3) of this Act, up to 
$15,000,000 may be reprogrammed within ``United States Secret Service 
-- Operations and Support''.

                               TITLE III

            PROTECTION, PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY

              National Protection and Programs Directorate

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses for the National Protection and Programs 
Directorate, as authorized by title II of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.), $1,356,289,000, of which $12,993,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, That not to exceed 
$3,825 shall be for official reception and representation expenses.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses for the National Protection and Programs 
Directorate for procurement, construction, and improvements, as 
authorized by title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
121 et seq.), $393,304,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2019.

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses for the National Protection and Programs 
Directorate for research and development, as authorized by the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.), $6,469,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                       federal protective service

    The revenues and collections of security fees credited to this 
account shall be available until expended for necessary expenses 
related to the protection of federally owned and leased buildings and 
for the operations of the Federal Protective Service.

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, 
as authorized by law, $936,291,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,250 
shall be for official reception and representation expenses.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
for procurement, construction, and improvements, $35,273,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2019.

                           federal assistance

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For activities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency for the 
provision of Federal assistance, $10,442,987,000, as follows:
    (1) For necessary expenses in carrying out the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), 
$7,348,515,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$24,000,000 shall be transferred to the Department of Homeland Security 
Office of Inspector General for audits and investigations related to 
disasters: Provided, That of this amount, $6,709,000,000 shall be for 
major disasters declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided 
further, That the amount in the preceding proviso is designated by the 
Congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (2) For necessary expenses for management and administration, 
$110,956,000, of which $14,274,000 shall be for mitigation activities, 
including activities authorized by the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act 
of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) and the National Dam Safety Program 
Act (33 U.S.C. 467 et seq.); and of which $96,682,000 shall be for 
preparedness and protection activities, including activities authorized 
by the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 et seq.), the Post-
Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-295; 
120 Stat. 1394), and Title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief 
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133).
    (3) For the predisaster mitigation grant program under section 203 
of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5133), $54,485,000, to remain available until expended.
    (4) For necessary expenses, including administrative costs, under 
section 1360 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
4101), under sections 100215, 100216, 100226, 100230, and 100246 of the 
Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012, (Public Law 112-141, 
126 Stat. 916), and under section 17 of the Homeowner Flood Insurance 
Affordability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-89, 128 Stat. 1020), 
$177,531,000, and such additional sums as may be provided by State and 
local governments or other political subdivisions for cost-shared 
mapping activities under section 1360(f)(2) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
4101(f)(2)), to remain available until expended.
    (5) For activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 
2012 (Public Law 112-141, 126 Stat. 916), and the Homeowner Flood 
Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-89; 128 Stat. 
1020), $181,799,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, 
which shall be derived from offsetting amounts collected under section 
1308(d) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
4015(d)); of which $13,436,000 shall be available for salaries and 
expenses associated with flood management and $168,363,000 shall be 
available for flood plain management and flood mapping: Provided, That 
any additional fees collected pursuant to section 1308(d) of the 
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015(d)) shall be 
credited as offsetting collections to this account, to be available for 
flood plain management and flood mapping: Provided further, That total 
administrative costs shall not exceed 4 percent of the appropriation 
under this paragraph.
    (6) For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
activities, $2,589,000,000, which shall be allocated as follows:
            (A) $467,000,000 shall be for the State Homeland Security 
        Grant Program under section 2004 of the Homeland Security Act 
        of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 605), of which $55,000,000 shall be for 
        Operation Stonegarden: Provided, That notwithstanding 
        subsection (c)(4) of such section 2004, for fiscal year 2017, 
        the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shall make available to local 
        and tribal governments amounts provided to the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico under this paragraph in accordance with subsection 
        (c)(1) of such section 2004.
            (B) $600,000,000 shall be for the Urban Area Security 
        Initiative under section 2003 of the Homeland Security Act of 
        2002 (6 U.S.C. 604), of which $20,000,000 shall be for 
        organizations (as described under section 501(c)(3) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 
        501(a) of such code) determined by the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security to be at high risk of a terrorist attack.
            (C) $100,000,000 shall be for Public Transportation 
        Security Assistance and Railroad Security Assistance under 
        sections 1406 and 1513 of the Implementing Recommendations of 
        the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (6 U.S.C. 1135 and 1163), of 
        which $10,000,000 shall be for Amtrak security: Provided, That 
        such public transportation security assistance shall be 
        provided directly to public transportation agencies.
            (D) $100,000,000 shall be for Port Security Grants in 
        accordance with 46 U.S.C. 70107.
            (E) $49,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
        2018, shall be for emergent threats from violent extremism and 
        from complex, coordinated terrorist attacks.
            (F) $690,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
        2018, shall be for necessary expenses for programs authorized 
        by the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15 
        U.S.C. 2201 et seq.), of which $345,000,000 shall be available 
        to carry out section 33 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 2229), and 
        $345,000,000 shall be available to carry out section 34 of that 
        Act (15 U.S.C. 2229a).
            (G) $350,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses for 
        emergency management performance grants, as authorized by the 
        Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act 
        of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), 6 U.S.C. 762, and 
        Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
            (H) $233,000,000 shall be for training, exercises, 
        technical assistance, and other programs.
    (7) For necessary expenses of the United States Fire Administration 
and for other purposes, as authorized by the Federal Fire Prevention 
and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.) and the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 et seq.), $42,500,000.
    (8) To carry out the emergency food and shelter program pursuant to 
title III of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11331 et seq.), $120,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That total administrative costs shall not exceed 3.5 percent 
of the total amount made available by this subsection.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 301.  None of the funds under the heading ``National 
Protection and Programs Directorate -- Procurement, Construction, and 
Improvements'' for biometric identity management shall be obligated 
until the Secretary submits a report to the Committees on Appropriation 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate on plans to--
    (1) Implement a facial recognition matching capability for IDENT 
holdings, including the ability to search, store, and match, that is 
independent of other biometric modalities but scalable for future 
needs;
    (2) Accelerate the development of multi-modal biometric capability 
(HART Increment 2) to ensure that full multi-modal capability is 
available for stakeholders by the end of fiscal year 2018;
    (3) Establish a new, equitable governance structure in fiscal year 
2017 that ensures stakeholder mission requirements are prioritized for 
implementation, to include--
            (A) a project plan and capability execution schedule for 
        each stakeholder mission;
            (B) stakeholder management of all requests for services;
            (C) a weighted on-boarding process for new requirements and 
        priorities; and
            (D) an executive stakeholder review process; and
    (4) Demonstrate new agile projects focused on the ability to fuse 
biographic intelligence information with biometric data.
    Sec. 302.  Under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency 
-- Federal Assistance'', for paragraphs (6)(A) through (6)(D), 
notwithstanding section 2008(a)(11) of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (6 U.S.C. 609(a)(11)) or any other provision of law, a recipient 
or subrecipient of a grant may use not more than 5 percent of the 
amount of the grant or subgrant made available to them under this 
heading for expenses directly related to administration of the grant.
    Sec. 303.  Applications for grants under the heading ``Federal 
Emergency Management Agency -- Federal Assistance'' shall be made 
available to eligible applicants not later than 60 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, eligible applicants shall submit applications 
not later than 80 days after the grant announcement, and the 
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall act 
within 65 days after the receipt of an application.
    Sec. 304.  Under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency 
-- Federal Assistance'', for grants under paragraphs (6)(A) and (6)(B), 
the installation of communications towers is not considered 
construction of a building or other physical facility.
    Sec. 305.  Under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency 
-- Federal Assistance'', for grants under paragraphs (6)(A) through 
(6)(G), grantees shall provide reports on their use of funds, as 
determined necessary by the Secretary of Homeland Security.
    Sec. 306.  Notwithstanding section 509 of this Act, the 
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency may use the 
funds provided under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency 
-- Federal Assistance'' in paragraph (6)(G) to acquire real property 
for the purpose of establishing or appropriately extending the security 
buffer zones around Federal Emergency Management Agency training 
facilities.
    Sec. 307.  The reporting requirements in paragraphs (1) and (2) 
under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency -- Disaster 
Relief Fund'' in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations 
Act, 2015 (Public Law 114-4) shall be applied in fiscal year 2017 with 
respect to budget year 2018 and current fiscal year 2017, respectively, 
by substituting ``fiscal year 2018'' for ``fiscal year 2017'' in 
paragraph (1).
    Sec. 308.  In fiscal year 2017, no funds shall be available from 
the National Flood Insurance Fund under section 1310 of the National 
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4017) in excess of:
            (1) $147,042,000 for operating expenses and salaries and 
        expenses associated with flood insurance operations;
            (2) $1,123,000,000 for commissions and taxes of agents;
            (3) such sums as are necessary for interest on Treasury 
        borrowings; and
            (4) $175,061,000, to remain available until expended, for 
        flood mitigation actions and for flood mitigation assistance 
        under section 1366 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 
        (42 U.S.C. 4104c), notwithstanding sections 1366(e) and 
        1310(a)(7) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 4104c(e), 4017):
 Provided, That the amounts collected under section 102 of the Flood 
Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a) and section 1366(e) 
of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 shall be deposited in the 
National Flood Insurance Fund to supplement other amounts specified as 
available for section 1366 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, 
notwithstanding section 102(f)(8), section 1366(e), and paragraphs (1) 
through (3) of section 1367(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 4012a(f)(8), 
4104c(e), 4104d(b)(1)-(3)): Provided further, That up to $5,000,000 is 
available to carry out section 24 of the Homeowner Flood Insurance 
Affordability Act of 2014 (42 U.S.C. 4033).
    Sec. 309.  Under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency 
-- Federal Assistance'', for grants under paragraphs (6)(A) through 
(6)(G), the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
shall brief the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate 5 full business days in advance of 
announcing publicly the intention of making an award.
    Sec. 310.  None of the funds provided in this or any other Act may 
be obligated to implement the National Preparedness Grant Program or 
any other successor grant programs unless explicitly authorized by 
Congress.
    Sec. 311.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, grants 
awarded to States along the Southwest Border of the United States under 
sections 2003 or 2004 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
604 and 605) using funds provided under the heading ``Federal Emergency 
Management Agency -- Federal Assistance'' for grants under paragraph 
(6)(A) in this Act, or under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management 
Agency -- State and Local Programs'' in Public Law 114-4, division F of 
Public Law 113-76, or division D of Public Law 113-6 may be used by 
recipients or sub-recipients for costs, or reimbursement of costs, 
related to providing humanitarian relief to unaccompanied alien 
children and alien adults accompanied by an alien minor where they are 
encountered after entering the United States, provided that such costs 
were incurred between January 1, 2014, and December 31, 2014, or during 
the award period of performance.

                                TITLE IV

             RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TRAINING, AND SERVICES

                  Citizenship and Immigration Services

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses for operations and support of the E-Verify 
Program, as described in section 403(a) of the Illegal Immigration 
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1324a note), 
to assist United States employers with maintaining a legal workforce, 
$103,912,000.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the E-Verify Program for procurement of 
and improvements to physical and technological infrastructure to assist 
United States employers with maintaining a legal workforce, 
$15,227,000.

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, including materials and support costs of Federal law 
enforcement basic training; the purchase of not to exceed 117 vehicles 
for police-type use and hire of passenger motor vehicles; expenses for 
student athletic and related activities; the conduct of and 
participation in firearms matches and presentation of awards; public 
awareness and enhancement of community support of law enforcement 
training; room and board for student interns; a flat monthly 
reimbursement to employees authorized to use personal mobile phones for 
official duties; and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code; $242,518,000; of which up to $50,748,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018, for materials and support 
costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; of which $27,553,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2019; and of which not to 
exceed $7,180 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses.

                         Science and Technology

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses for operations and support for science and 
technology research and development, acquisition, and laboratory 
operations as authorized by title III of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (6 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), and the purchase or lease of not to exceed 
5 vehicles, $278,733,000; of which $189,690,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019; and of which not to exceed $7,650 shall be 
for official reception and representation expenses.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses for science and technology test and 
evaluation, acquisition, and construction of laboratory facilities as 
authorized by title III of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
181 et seq.), $10,141,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2019.

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses for science and technology research and 
development, including advanced research projects as authorized by 
title III of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), 
$478,508,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

   Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and Explosives Office

                         operations and support

    For necessary expenses of the Chemical, Biological, Radiological, 
Nuclear, and Explosives Office, $182,533,000; of which $20,552,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2019, shall be for programs and 
operations in support of the detection, forensics, and prevention of 
radiological and nuclear threats; of which $120,420,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018, shall be for programs and 
operations in support of the surveillance, detection, and response to 
chemical, biological, and emerging infectious disease threats; and of 
which not to exceed $2,250 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses.

              procurement, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of the Chemical, Biological, Radiological, 
Nuclear, and Explosives Office for procurement, construction, and 
improvements, $103,860,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2019.

                        research and development

    For necessary expenses of the Chemical, Biological, Radiological, 
Nuclear, and Explosives Office for research and development, 
$151,605,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

                           federal assistance

    For necessary expenses of the Chemical, Biological, Radiological, 
Nuclear, and Explosives Office, $65,947,000; of which $51,684,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2019, shall be for programs and 
operations in support of the detection, forensics, and prevention of 
radiological and nuclear threats; and of which $14,263,000 shall be for 
programs and operations to prevent, protect against, respond to, and 
mitigate bombing incidents.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 401.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
otherwise made available to United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services may be used to acquire, operate, equip, and dispose of up to 5 
vehicles, for replacement only, for areas where the Administrator of 
General Services does not provide vehicles for lease: Provided, That 
the Director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services may 
authorize employees who are assigned to those areas to use such 
vehicles to travel between the employees' residences and places of 
employment.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services to grant an 
immigration benefit unless the results of background checks required by 
law to be completed prior to the granting of the benefit have been 
received by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, and the 
results do not preclude the granting of the benefit.
    Sec. 403.  No funds, resources, or fees made available to the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, or to any other official of a Federal 
agency, by this Act or any other Act for any fiscal year, including any 
deposits into the ``Immigration Examinations Fee Account'' established 
under section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1356(m)), may be obligated to expand the existing Deferred Action for 
Childhood Arrivals or newly proposed Deferred Action for Parents of 
Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents as outlined in memoranda 
signed November 20, 2014, by the Secretary of the Department of 
Homeland Security while the preliminary injunctive order of the 
district court for the Southern District of Texas entered February 16, 
2015, in the matter of Texas v. United States, Civ. No. B-14-254, 2015 
WL 648579 (S.D. Tex. Feb. 16, 2015), remains in effect.
    Sec. 404.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to process or approve a competition under Office of Management and 
Budget Circular A-76 for services provided by employees (including 
employees serving on a temporary or term basis) of United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Services of the Department of Homeland 
Security who are known as Immigration Information Officers, Immigration 
Service Analysts, Contact Representatives, Investigative Assistants, or 
Immigration Services Officers.
    Sec. 405. (a) Notwithstanding section 1356(n) of title 8, United 
States Code, of the funds deposited into the Immigration Examinations 
Fee Account, up to $10,000,000 may be allocated by United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Services in fiscal year 2017 for the 
purpose of providing an immigrant integration grants program.
    (b) None of the funds made available to United States Citizenship 
and Immigration Services for grants for immigrant integration under 
subsection (a) or (c) may be used to provide services to aliens who 
have not been lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
    (c) The Director of United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services is authorized in fiscal year 2017, and in each fiscal year 
thereafter, to solicit, accept, administer and utilize gifts, including 
donations of property, for the purpose of providing an immigrant 
integration grants program and related activities to promote 
citizenship and immigrant integration: Provided, That all sums received 
under this subsection shall be deposited in a separate account in the 
general fund of the Treasury to be known as the ``Citizenship Gift and 
Bequest Account'': Provided further, That all funds deposited into the 
Citizenship Gift and Bequest Account shall remain available until 
expended, and shall be available in addition to any funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available for an immigrant integration grants program 
or other activities to promote citizenship and immigrant integration.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the 
authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security under section 507 of 
the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2004 (Public 
Law 108-90) or any other law with respect to the solicitation and 
acceptance of gifts.
    Sec. 406.  The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is 
authorized to distribute funds to Federal law enforcement agencies for 
expenses incurred participating in training accreditation.
    Sec. 407.  The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is 
authorized to obligate funds in anticipation of reimbursements from 
agencies receiving training sponsored by the Center, except that total 
obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total 
budgetary resources available at the end of the fiscal year.
    Sec. 408.  The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center is 
authorized to accept transfers and reimbursements to ``Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center -- Operations and Support'' from agencies 
receiving training sponsored by the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center for ongoing maintenance, minor facility improvements, and 
related expenses as necessary of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center.
    Sec. 409.  Section 1202(a) of Public Law 107-206 (42 U.S.C. 3771 
note), as amended under the heading ``Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center -- Salaries and Expenses'' in title IV of Public Law 114-4, is 
further amended by striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2019''.
    Sec. 410.  The Director of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center shall schedule basic or advanced law enforcement training, or 
both, at all four training facilities under the control of the Federal 
Law Enforcement Training Center to ensure that such training facilities 
are operated at the highest capacity throughout the fiscal year.
    Sec. 411.  The Federal Law Enforcement Training Accreditation 
Board, including representatives from the Federal law enforcement 
community and non-Federal accreditation experts involved in law 
enforcement training, shall lead the Federal law enforcement training 
accreditation process to continue the implementation of measuring and 
assessing the quality and effectiveness of Federal law enforcement 
training programs, facilities, and instructors.
    Sec. 412. (a) There is to be established a ``Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center -- Procurement, Construction, and 
Improvements'' appropriations account for planning, operational 
development, engineering, and purchases prior to sustainment and for 
information technology-related procurement, construction, and 
improvements, including non-tangible assets of the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center.
    (b) The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center may accept 
transfers and reimbursements to the account established by subsection 
(a) from Government agencies requesting the construction of special use 
facilities, as authorized by the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535(b)).
    Sec. 413.  The functions of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center instructor staff shall be classified as inherently governmental 
for the purpose of the Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998 
(31 U.S.C. 501 note).

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including transfers and rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502.  Subject to the requirements of section 503 of this Act, 
the unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided for activities 
in this Act may be transferred to appropriation accounts for such 
activities established pursuant to this Act, may be merged with funds 
in the applicable established accounts, and thereafter may be accounted 
for as one fund for the same time period as originally enacted.
    Sec. 503. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, provided by 
previous appropriations Acts to the components in or transferred to the 
Department of Homeland Security that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2017, or provided from any accounts in the 
Treasury of the United States derived by the collection of fees 
available to the components funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates or eliminates a program, project, or activity, 
        or increases funds for any program, project, or activity for 
        which funds have been denied or restricted by the Congress;
            (2) contracts out any function or activity presently 
        performed by Federal employees or any new function or activity 
        proposed to be performed by Federal employees in the 
        President's budget proposal for fiscal year 2017 for the 
        Department of Homeland Security;
            (3) augments funding for existing programs, projects, or 
        activities in excess of $5,000,000;
            (4) reduces funding for any program, project, or activity, 
        or numbers of personnel, by 10 percent or more;
            (5) reorganizes offices; or
            (6) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel that would result in a change in existing programs, 
        projects, or activities as approved by the Congress, unless the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
        and the Senate are notified 15 days in advance of such 
        reprogramming of funds.
    (b) Not to exceed 5 percent or $25,000,000, whichever is less, of 
any appropriation made available for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Homeland Security by this Act or provided by previous 
appropriations Acts may be transferred between such appropriations 
unless the Secretary of Homeland Security determines such transfer is 
necessary in the national interest.
    (c) Any transfer under this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under subsection (a) and shall not be available 
for obligation unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified 30 days in advance of such 
transfer.
    (d) Notwithstanding subsections (a), (b), and (c), no funds shall 
be reprogrammed within or transferred between appropriations based upon 
an initial notification provided after June 30, except in extraordinary 
circumstances that imminently threaten the safety of human life or the 
protection of property.
    (e) The notification thresholds and procedures set forth in 
subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) shall apply to any use of 
deobligated balances of funds provided in previous Department of 
Homeland Security Appropriations Acts.
    (f) The Secretary of Homeland Security may transfer to the fund 
established by 8 U.S.C. 1101 note, up to $20,000,000 from 
appropriations available to the Department of Homeland Security: 
Provided, That the Secretary shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 5 days in 
advance of such transfer.
    Sec. 504.  The Department of Homeland Security Working Capital 
Fund, established pursuant to section 403 of Public Law 103-356 (31 
U.S.C. 501 note), shall continue operations as a permanent working 
capital fund for fiscal year 2017: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Homeland 
Security may be used to make payments to the Working Capital Fund, 
except for the activities and amounts allowed in the President's fiscal 
year 2017 budget: Provided further, That funds provided to the Working 
Capital Fund shall be available for obligation until expended to carry 
out the purposes of the Working Capital Fund: Provided further, That 
all Departmental components shall be charged only for direct usage of 
each Working Capital Fund service: Provided further, That funds 
provided to the Working Capital Fund shall be used only for purposes 
consistent with the contributing component: Provided further, That the 
Working Capital Fund shall be paid in advance or reimbursed at rates 
which will return the full cost of each service: Provided further, That 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate shall be notified of any activity added to or removed from 
the fund: Provided further, That for any activity added to the fund, 
the notification shall identify sources of funds by program, project, 
and activity: Provided further, That the Chief Financial Officer of the 
Department of Homeland Security shall submit a quarterly execution 
report with activity level detail, not later than 30 days after the end 
of each quarter.
    Sec. 505.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2017, as recorded in the financial records at the 
time of a reprogramming request, but not later than June 30, 2018, from 
appropriations for ``Operations and Support'' and for ``Coast Guard -- 
Operating Expenses'' for fiscal year 2017 in this Act shall remain 
available through September 30, 2018, in the account and for the 
purposes for which the appropriations were provided: Provided, That 
prior to the obligation of such funds, a notification shall be 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in accordance with section 503 of this 
Act.
    Sec. 506.  Funds made available by this Act for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414) during fiscal year 2017 until the enactment of an Act authorizing 
intelligence activities for fiscal year 2017.
    Sec. 507. (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), none 
of the funds made available by this Act may be used to--
            (1) make or award a grant allocation, grant, contract, 
        other transaction agreement, or task or delivery order on a 
        Department of Homeland Security multiple award contract, or to 
        issue a letter of intent totaling in excess of $1,000,000;
            (2) award a task or delivery order requiring an obligation 
        of funds in an amount greater than $10,000,000 from multi-year 
        Department of Homeland Security funds;
            (3) make a sole-source grant award; or
            (4) announce publicly the intention to make or award items 
        under paragraph (1), (2), or (3), including a contract covered 
        by the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
    (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security may waive the prohibition 
under subsection (a) if the Secretary notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate at least 
3 full business days in advance of making an award or issuing a letter 
as described in that subsection.
    (c) If the Secretary of Homeland Security determines that 
compliance with this section would pose a substantial risk to human 
life, health, or safety, an award may be made without notification, and 
the Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate not later than 5 full business 
days after such an award is made or letter issued.
    (d) A notification under this section--
            (1) may not involve funds that are not available for 
        obligation; and
            (2) shall include the amount of the award; the fiscal year 
        for which the funds for the award were appropriated; the type 
        of contract; and the account from which the funds are being 
        drawn.
    Sec. 508.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no agency 
shall purchase, construct, or lease any additional facilities, except 
within or contiguous to existing locations, to be used for the purpose 
of conducting Federal law enforcement training without advance 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, except that the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center is authorized to obtain the temporary use of additional 
facilities by lease, contract, or other agreement for training that 
cannot be accommodated in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for expenses for any construction, 
repair, alteration, or acquisition project for which a prospectus 
otherwise required under chapter 33 of title 40, United States Code, 
has not been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for 
each project for required expenses for the development of a proposed 
prospectus.
    Sec. 510.  Sections 520, 522, and 530 of the Department of Homeland 
Security Appropriations Act, 2008 (division E of Public Law 110-161; 
121 Stat. 2073 and 2074) shall apply with respect to funds made 
available in this Act in the same manner as such sections applied to 
funds made available in that Act.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of the applicable provisions of the Buy American Act: 
Provided, That for purposes of the preceding sentence, the term ``Buy 
American Act'' means chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to amend the oath of allegiance required by section 337 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1448).
    Sec. 513.  Section 519 of division F of Public Law 114-113, 
regarding a prohibition on funding for any position designated as a 
Principal Federal Official, shall apply with respect to funds made 
available in this Act in the same manner as such section applied to 
funds made available in that Act.
    Sec. 514.  Section 831 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
U.S.C. 391) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Until September 30, 
        2016,'' and inserting ``Until September 30, 2017,''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``September 30, 
        2016,'' and inserting ``September 30, 2017,''.
    Sec. 515.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds provided in this or any other Act shall be used to approve a 
waiver of the navigation and vessel-inspection laws pursuant to 46 
U.S.C. 501(b) for the transportation of crude oil distributed from and 
to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve until the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, after consultation with the Secretaries of the Departments of 
Energy and Transportation and representatives from the United States 
flag maritime industry, takes adequate measures to ensure the use of 
United States flag vessels: Provided, That the Secretary shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate within 2 business days of any request for 
waivers of navigation and vessel-inspection laws pursuant to 46 U.S.C. 
501(b).
    Sec. 516.  None of the funds made available in this Act for U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection may be used to prevent an individual not 
in the business of importing a prescription drug (within the meaning of 
section 801(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act) from 
importing a prescription drug from Canada that complies with the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act: Provided, That this section shall 
apply only to individuals transporting on their person a personal-use 
quantity of the prescription drug, not to exceed a 90-day supply: 
Provided further, That the prescription drug may not be--
            (1) a controlled substance, as defined in section 102 of 
        the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802); or
            (2) a biological product, as defined in section 351 of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262).
    Sec. 517.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for planning, testing, piloting, or developing a national 
identification card.
    Sec. 518.  Any official that is required by this Act to report or 
to certify to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate may not delegate such authority to 
perform that act unless specifically authorized herein.
    Sec. 519.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this or any other Act may be used to transfer, release, or 
assist in the transfer or release to or within the United States, its 
territories, or possessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other 
detainee who--
            (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at the United 
        States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
        of Defense.
    Sec. 520.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for first-class travel by the employees of agencies funded by this Act 
in contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, 
Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 521.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to employ workers described in section 274A(h)(3) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324a(h)(3)).
    Sec. 522.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to pay award or incentive fees for contractor performance that has 
been judged to be below satisfactory performance or performance that 
does not meet the basic requirements of a contract.
    Sec. 523.  In developing any process to screen aviation passengers 
and crews for transportation or national security purposes, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that all such processes 
take into consideration such passengers' and crews' privacy and civil 
liberties consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and guidance.
    Sec. 524.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used by the Department of Homeland 
Security to enter into any Federal contract unless such contract is 
entered into in accordance with the requirements of subtitle I of title 
41, United States Code, or chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, 
and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless such contract is 
otherwise authorized by statute to be entered into without regard to 
the above referenced statutes.
    Sec. 525. (a) For an additional amount for financial systems 
modernization, $41,215,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018.
    (b) Funds made available in subsection (a) for financial systems 
modernization may be transferred by the Secretary of Homeland Security 
between appropriations for the same purpose, notwithstanding section 
503 of this Act.
    (c) No transfer described in subsection (b) shall occur until 15 
days after the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified of such transfer.
    Sec. 526.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure 
enforcement of immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17))).
    Sec. 527. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 528.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by a Federal law enforcement officer to facilitate the transfer of an 
operable firearm to an individual if the Federal law enforcement 
officer knows or suspects that the individual is an agent of a drug 
cartel unless law enforcement personnel of the United States 
continuously monitor or control the firearm at all times.
    Sec. 529.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay for the travel to or attendance of more than 50 employees of a 
single component of the Department of Homeland Security, who are 
stationed in the United States, at a single international conference 
unless the Secretary of Homeland Security, or a designee, determines 
that such attendance is in the national interest and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate within at least 10 days of that determination and the basis for 
that determination: Provided, That for purposes of this section the 
term ``international conference'' shall mean a conference occurring 
outside of the United States attended by representatives of the United 
States Government and of foreign governments, international 
organizations, or nongovernmental organizations: Provided further, That 
the total cost to the Department of Homeland Security of any such 
conference shall not exceed $500,000.
    Sec. 530.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to reimburse any Federal department or agency for its participation in 
a National Special Security Event.
    Sec. 531.  As authorized by section 601(b) of the United States-
Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (Public Law 112-
42), not to exceed $220,000,000 in fees collected from passengers 
arriving from Canada, Mexico, or an adjacent island pursuant to section 
13031(a)(5) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(a)(5)) shall be available until expended.
    Sec. 532.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Homeland Security by this or any other Act may be obligated for any 
structural pay reform that affects more than 100 full-time equivalent 
employee positions or costs more than $5,000,000 in a single year 
before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which the 
Secretary of Homeland Security submits to Congress a notification that 
includes--
            (1) the number of full-time equivalent employee positions 
        affected by such change;
            (2) funding required for such change for the current year 
        and through the Future Years Homeland Security Program;
            (3) justification for such change; and
            (4) an analysis of compensation alternatives to such change 
        that were considered by the Department.
    Sec. 533. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this Act 
shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public website 
of that agency any report required to be submitted by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate in this 
Act, upon the determination by the head of the agency that it shall 
serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises homeland 
        or national security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the Committees for no less 
than 45 days except as otherwise specified in law.
    Sec. 534. (a) Beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security shall not--
            (1) establish, collect, or otherwise impose any new border 
        crossing fee on individuals crossing the Southern border or the 
        Northern border at a land port of entry; or
            (2) conduct any study relating to the imposition of a 
        border crossing fee.
    (b) In this section, the term ``border crossing fee'' means a fee 
that every pedestrian, cyclist, and driver and passenger of a private 
motor vehicle is required to pay for the privilege of crossing the 
Southern border or the Northern border at a land port of entry.
    Sec. 535. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security may include in the 
President's budget proposal for fiscal year 2018, submitted pursuant to 
section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, and accompanying 
justification materials, an account structure under which each 
appropriation under each agency heading either remains the same as 
fiscal year 2017 or falls within the following categories of 
appropriations:
            (1) Operations and Support.
            (2) Procurements, Construction, and Improvements.
            (3) Research and Development.
            (4) Federal Assistance.
    (b) The Under Secretary for Management, acting through the Chief 
Financial Officer, shall determine and provide centralized guidance to 
each agency on how to structure appropriations for purposes of 
subsection (a).
    (c) Not earlier than October 1, 2017, the accounts designated under 
subsection (a) may be established, and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security may execute appropriations of the Department as provided 
pursuant to such subsection, including any continuing appropriations 
made available for fiscal year 2018 before enactment of a regular 
appropriations Act.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security may transfer any appropriation made available to the 
Department of Homeland Security by any appropriations Acts to the 
accounts created pursuant to subsection (c) to carry out the 
requirements of such subsection, and shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate at least 
5 days prior to each transfer.
    Sec. 536.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the 
Senate approves a resolution of ratification for the Treaty.
    Sec. 537.  For an additional amount for ``U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection -- Operations and Support'', $31,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be reduced by amounts collected and 
credited to this appropriation from amounts authorized to be collected 
by section 286(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1356(i)), section 10412 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act 
of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8311), and section 817 of the Trade Facilitation and 
Trade Enforcement Act of 2015, or other such authorizing language: 
Provided, That to the extent that amounts realized from such 
collections exceed $31,000,000, those amounts in excess of $31,000,000 
shall be credited to this appropriation, to remain available until 
expended.
    Sec. 538.  Funds appropriated by this Act for the Department of 
Homeland Security may be obligated in the account and the budget 
structure established pursuant to section 563 of division F of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public Law 114-113).
    Sec. 539.  All official costs associated with the use of Government 
aircraft by Department of Homeland Security personnel to support 
official travel of the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary shall be paid 
from amounts made available for the Immediate Office of the Secretary 
and the Immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary.
    Sec. 540. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to approve, license, facilitate, authorize, or otherwise allow the 
trafficking or import of property confiscated by the Cuban Government.
    (b) In this section, the terms ``confiscated'', ``Cuban 
Government'', ``property'', and ``traffic'' have the meanings given 
such terms in paragraphs (4), (5), (12)(A), and (13), respectively, of 
section 4 of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act 
of 1996 (2216 U.S.C. 6023).
    Sec. 541. (a) For funds provided in this Act for each ``Operations 
and Support'' appropriation and for ``Coast Guard -- Operating 
Expenses'', 20 percent shall be withheld from obligation until the 
fiscal year 2018 budget justification materials for the Department of 
Homeland Security are provided to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate in accordance with the 
requirements on page 17 of House Report 114-215, which were 
incorporated by reference into Public Law 114-113 in the explanatory 
statement accompanying that Act.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to the Office of Inspector 
General.
    Sec. 542. (a) Funding provided in this Act for ``Operations and 
Support'' may be used for minor procurement, construction, and 
improvements.
    (b) For purposes of subsection (a), ``minor procurement, 
construction, and improvements'' is defined as personal property with a 
unit cost of $250,000 or less or real property with a unit cost of 
$2,000,000 or less.
    Sec. 543.  The aggregate charges assessed during fiscal year 2017, 
as authorized in title III of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (42 U.S.C. 5196e), shall not be less than 100 percent of the 
amounts anticipated by the Department of Homeland Security to be 
necessary for its Radiological Emergency Preparedness Program for the 
next fiscal year: Provided, That the methodology for assessment and 
collection of fees shall be fair and equitable and shall reflect costs 
of providing such services, including administrative costs of 
collecting such fees: Provided further, That such fees shall be 
deposited in a Radiological Emergency Preparedness Program account as 
offsetting collections and will become available for authorized 
purposes on October 1, 2017, and remain available until expended.
    Sec. 544.  Section 118 of the Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted into law by section 1(3) of Public 
Law 106-554; 114 Stat. 2763A-134) is amended, in the first sentence, by 
striking ``for the year would'' and inserting ``for calendar years 
2016, would exceed the rate of basic pay payable for level III of the 
Executive Schedule, and for any other year, would''.
    Sec. 545.  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit the report 
on ICE detention costs described in the report accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 546.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate, at the time the President's budget 
proposal for fiscal year 2018 is submitted pursuant to section 1105(a) 
of title 31, United States Code, a classified report on the assessment 
of the relative threat, vulnerability, and consequences from acts of 
terrorism faced by each eligible metropolitan area, required by section 
2003 of Public Law 110-53 (6 U.S.C. 604).
    Sec. 547.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall be available to pay for an 
abortion, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if 
the fetus were carried to term, or in the case of rape or incest: 
Provided, That should this prohibition be declared unconstitutional by 
a court of competent jurisdiction, this section shall be null and void.
    Sec. 548.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall be used to require any person 
to perform, or facilitate in any way the performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 549.  Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to provide escort services 
necessary for a female detainee to receive such service outside the 
detention facility: Provided, That nothing in this section in any way 
diminishes the effect of section ____ [preceding section] intended to 
address the philosophical beliefs of individual employees of U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
    Sec. 550.  Notwithstanding subsection (e)(3)(B) of section 559 of 
division F of Public Law 113-76 and subsection (g) of section 560 of 
division D of Public Law 113-6, U.S. Customs and Border Protection may 
receive reimbursement for the cost of up to five full-time equivalent 
officers under the programs established in such sections at no more 
than five ports of entry.
    Sec. 551.  No funds or fees made available to the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, or to the head of any other Federal agency, by this 
or any other Act may be used to release from custody, other than for 
removal from the United States, or as required by law or pursuant to a 
court order, any lawfully detained alien described in the Priority 1 or 
Priority 2 category in the memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland 
Security entitled ``Policies for the Apprehension, Detention and 
Removal of Undocumented Immigrants'' dated November 20, 2014.
    Sec. 552. (a) Section 214(g)(9)(A) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)(9)(A)) is amended by striking ``2013, 
2014, or 2015 shall not again be counted toward such limitation during 
fiscal year 2016.'' and inserting ``2014, 2015, or 2016 shall not again 
be counted toward such limitation during fiscal year 2017.''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on 
October 1, 2016.

                             (rescissions)

    Sec. 553.  Of the funds appropriated to the Department of Homeland 
Security, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the following 
accounts and programs in the specified amounts: Provided, That no 
amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177):
            (1) $95,000,000 from Public Law 109-88;
            (2) $55,000,000 from unobligated prior year balances from 
        ``U.S. Customs and Border Protection -- Border Security, 
        Fencing, Infrastructure, and Technology'';
            (3) $45,000,000 from Public Law 114-4 under the heading 
        ``U. S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement -- Salaries and 
        Expenses'';
            (4) $12,200,000 from Public Law 114-113 under the heading 
        ``Transportation Security Administration -- Aviation 
        Security'';
            (5) $4,200,000 from Public Law 113-6 under the heading 
        ``Coast Guard -- Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements'';
            (6) $19,300,000 from Public Law 113-76 under the heading 
        ``Coast Guard -- Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements''; 
        and
            (7) $16,500,000 from Public Law 114-4 under the heading 
        ``Coast Guard -- Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements''.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 554.  From the unobligated balances available in the 
Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund established by section 9703 
of title 31, United States Code (added by section 638 of Public Law 
102-393), $187,000,000 shall be rescinded.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 555.  Of the unobligated balances made available to ``Federal 
Emergency Management Agency -- Disaster Relief Fund'', $770,700,000 
shall be rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from 
amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That no amounts may be rescinded from the amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as being for disaster relief 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 556.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is 
$5,000,000.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Homeland Security 
Appropriations Act, 2017''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 518

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5634

                          [Report No. 114-668]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              July 6, 2016

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
