[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4890 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

<DOC>
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4890


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 25, 2016

     Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To impose a ban on the payment of bonuses to employees of the Internal 
   Revenue Service until the Secretary of the Treasury develops and 
         implements a comprehensive customer service strategy.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. BAN ON IRS BONUSES UNTIL IRS DEVELOPS COMPREHENSIVE CUSTOMER 
              SERVICE STRATEGY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary's 
delegate, may not pay a bonus, award, or similar cash payment to any 
employee of the Internal Revenue Service until the Secretary, or the 
Secretary's delegate, develops and submits to Congress a comprehensive 
customer service strategy that has been reviewed and approved by the 
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration. Such strategy shall 
include--
            (1) appropriate telephone and correspondence levels of 
        service, which shall be based on service provided by the best 
        in business and customer expectations;
            (2) a thorough assessment of which services the Internal 
        Revenue Service can shift to self-service options; and
            (3) proposals to improve customer service in the short term 
        (the current and following fiscal year), medium term 
        (approximately 3 to 5 fiscal years), and long term 
        (approximately 10 fiscal years).
    (b) Progress Reports.--The Secretary of the Treasury, or the 
Secretary's delegate, shall submit reports to the Congress on the 
status of its customer service strategy and actions taken to improve 
customer service. Such reports shall be submitted on a semiannual basis 
until the comprehensive customer service strategy under subsection (a) 
is fully implemented.
    (c) Consultation With Taxpayer Advocate.--In developing the 
comprehensive customer service strategy pursuant to this section, the 
Secretary, or the Secretary's delegate, shall consult with the National 
Taxpayer Advocate.

SEC. 2. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.

    No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated or otherwise 
made available to carry out the requirements of this Act. Such 
requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized to 
be appropriated.

            Passed the House of Representatives April 21, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
