[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4384 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4384

To amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to 
preclude certain senior employees of the Veterans Health Administration 
from receiving bonuses when any employee of such Administration has not 
                      met certain wait-time goals.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 13, 2016

Mr. Guinta (for himself and Ms. Gabbard) introduced the following bill; 
   which was referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in 
  addition to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to 
preclude certain senior employees of the Veterans Health Administration 
from receiving bonuses when any employee of such Administration has not 
                      met certain wait-time goals.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans Administration Bonus 
Elimination Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON BONUSES FOR CERTAIN SENIOR EMPLOYEES OF THE 
              VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION WHEN WAIT-TIME GOALS ARE 
              NOT MET.

    (a) In General.--Section 705 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
Accountability Act of 2014 (38 U.S.C. 703 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``In each of'' and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Cap on Bonuses.--In each of''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Prohibition on Bonuses Under Certain Circumstances.--The 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that no awards or bonuses 
described in subsection (a) are paid to an employee of the Veterans 
Health Administration in a senior executive position (as defined in 
section 713(g) of title 38, United States Code) at a time when any 
employee of such Administration has failed to satisfy a request for an 
appointment for hospital care or medical services from the Department 
within the wait-time goals of the Veterans Health Administration (as 
defined in section 101(s)) for such request or within the timeline 
specified by the individual making such request, whichever is later.''.
    (b) Clarification of Interaction With Existing Law.--Section 205(a) 
of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (38 
U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended by striking ``are not used as factors'' 
and inserting ``are not, except as provided by section 705(b), used as 
factors''.
                                 <all>
