[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 922 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 922

To amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 
     to provide enhanced academic and career training in science, 
    technology, engineering, or mathematics, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 12, 2015

Ms. Adams (for herself, Ms. Moore, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, 
and Ms. Fudge) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                Committee on Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 
     to provide enhanced academic and career training in science, 
    technology, engineering, or mathematics, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Science, Technology, Engineering, 
and Mathematics Professional Readiness Education Preparation Act'' or 
the ``STEM PREP Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. REFERENCES.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this Act an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of the Carl D. Perkins Career 
and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 3 (20 U.S.C. 2302) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (31) through (34) as 
        paragraphs (32) through (35), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (30) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(31) STEM.--The term `STEM' means science, technology, 
        engineering, or mathematics as determined by the Secretary.''; 
        and
            (3) in paragraph (33) (as so redesignated), in the 
        paragraph heading, by striking ``Tech prep'' and inserting 
        ``STEM prep''.

SEC. 4. STEM PREP PROGRAM.

    (a) Eligible Postsecondary Programs.--Section 203(a)(1)(B)(i) (20 
U.S.C. 2373(a)(1)(B)(i)) is amended--
            (1) in subclause (I)(aa), by striking ``2-year certificate 
        program'' and inserting ``1-year or 2-year certificate 
        program''; and
            (2) in subclause (II), by striking ``2-year 
        apprenticeship'' and inserting ``1-year or 2-year 
        apprenticeship''.
    (b) Duration.--Section 203(b) (20 U.S.C. 2373(b)) is amended by 
striking ``4- or 6-year'' and inserting ``3-year to 6-year''.
    (c) Contents of STEM Prep Program.--Section 203(c) (20 U.S.C. 
2373(c)) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Tech Prep'' 
        and inserting ``STEM Prep''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(ii)--
                            (i) by striking ``2 years'' each place it 
                        appears and inserting ``1 year''; and
                            (ii) in subclause (I), by inserting after 
                        ``course of study'' the following: ``(which may 
                        be completed while a student is concurrently 
                        enrolled in a secondary school)''; and
                    (B) by striking subparagraphs (B) through (G) and 
                inserting the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(B) focuses on academic and professional training 
                in STEM;
                    ``(C) provides students with--
                            ``(i) technical skill proficiency, an 
                        industry-recognized credential, a certificate, 
                        or a degree in a STEM discipline; or
                            ``(ii) not less than one semester of 
                        academic credits in STEM subjects that may be 
                        transferred to an accredited public institution 
                        of higher education in the State in which the 
                        program is located;
                    ``(D) gives each student an opportunity to 
                participate in a STEM-related internship or 
                apprenticeship lasting not less than 4 months;
                    ``(E) builds student competence in technical skills 
                and in core academic subjects (as defined in section 
                9101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
                1965), as appropriate, through applied, contextual, and 
                integrated instruction, in a coherent sequence of 
                courses; and
                    ``(F) leads to placement in high skill or high wage 
                employment, or to further education;''.
    (d) Indicators of Performance and Accountability.--Section 
203(e)(1) (20 U.S.C. 2373(e)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Such other indicators of performance as the 
                Secretary determines to be appropriate.''.

SEC. 5. CONSORTIUM APPLICATIONS.

    (a) Approval of Applications.--Section 204(c) (20 U.S.C. 2374(c)) 
is amended to read as follows--
    ``(c) Approval.--
            ``(1) In general.--The eligible agency shall approve 
        applications under this title based on the potential of the 
        activities described in the application to create an effective 
        STEM prep program.
            ``(2) Consultation.--In selecting applications for approval 
        under paragraph (1), the eligible agency shall seek input from 
        industry experts and educators in STEM fields as 
        appropriate.''.
    (b) Special Consideration.--Section 204(d) (20 U.S.C. 2374(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) showcase curricula that lead to greater critical 
        thinking and problem solving skills in STEM by incorporating 
        fine arts into the STEM prep program.''.
    (c) Matching Requirement.--Section 204 (20 U.S.C. 2374) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Matching Requirement.--
            ``(1) In general.--To be eligible for a grant under this 
        title a consortium shall agree to provide not less than 25 
        percent in matching funds from non-Federal sources.
            ``(2) Limitation.--Not more than 10 percent of such 
        matching funds may be used to fund stipends for individuals 
        participating in internships or apprenticeships under section 
        203(c)(2)(D).''.

SEC. 6. EVALUATIONS AND REPORT.

    Section 205 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education 
Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2375) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 205. EVALUATIONS AND REPORT.

    ``(a) Evaluations.--Each eligible agency that receives an allotment 
under this title shall annually prepare and submit to the Secretary a 
written evaluation of the effectiveness of the STEM prep programs 
assisted under this title, including a description of how grants were 
awarded within the State.
    ``(b) Report.--Using the evaluations described in subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall annually prepare a report comparing the 
effectiveness of the STEM prep programs assisted under this title and 
shall publish such report on a publicly accessible website of the 
Department of Education.''.

SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 206 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education 
Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2376) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 
2007'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2016''.

SEC. 8. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    The Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.) is amended by striking ``tech prep'' each place it 
appears (including in headings and table of contents items) and 
inserting ``STEM prep'', in each case with the matter inserted to be in 
the same typeface and typestyle as the matter striken.
                                 <all>
