[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 719 Engrossed Amendment House (EAH)]

<DOC>
                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 24, 2015.
    Resolved, That the House agree to the amendment of the Senate to 
the bill (H.R. 719) entitled ``An Act to require the Transportation 
Security Administration to conform to existing Federal law and 
regulations regarding criminal investigator positions, and for other 
purposes.'', with the following

                  HOUSE AMENDMENT TO SENATE AMENDMENT:

            In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by the 
      amendment of the Senate, insert the following:

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``TSA Office of Inspection 
Accountability Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Consistent with Federal law and regulations, for law 
        enforcement officers to qualify for premium pay as criminal 
        investigators, the officers must, in general, spend on average 
        at least 50 percent of their time investigating, apprehending, 
        or detaining individuals suspected or convicted of offenses 
        against the criminal laws of the United States.
            (2) According to the Inspector General of the Department of 
        Homeland Security (DHS IG), the Transportation Security 
        Administration (TSA) does not ensure that its cadre of criminal 
        investigators in the Office of Inspection are meeting this 
        requirement, even though they are considered law enforcement 
        officers under TSA policy and receive premium pay.
            (3) Instead, TSA criminal investigators in the Office of 
        Inspection primarily monitor the results of criminal 
        investigations conducted by other agencies, investigate 
        administrative cases of TSA employee misconduct, and carry out 
        inspections, covert tests, and internal reviews, which the DHS 
        IG asserts could be performed by employees other than criminal 
        investigators at a lower cost.
            (4) The premium pay and other benefits afforded to TSA 
        criminal investigators in the Office of Inspection who are 
        incorrectly classified as such will cost the taxpayer as much 
        as $17 million over 5 years if TSA fails to make any changes to 
        the number of criminal investigators in the Office of 
        Inspection, according to the DHS IG.
            (5) This may be a conservative estimate, as it accounts for 
        the cost of Law Enforcement Availability Pay, but not the costs 
        of law enforcement training, statutory early retirement 
        benefits, police vehicles, and weapons.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administration.--The term ``Administration'' means the 
        Transportation Security Administration.
            (2) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary'' 
        means the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security 
        (Transportation Security) of the Department of Homeland 
        Security.
            (3) Inspector general.--The term ``Inspector General'' 
        means the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland 
        Security.

SEC. 4. INSPECTOR GENERAL AUDIT.

    (a) Audit.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Inspector General shall analyze the data and methods 
that the Assistant Secretary uses to identify Office of Inspection 
employees of the Administration who meet the requirements of sections 
8331(20), 8401(17), and 5545a of title 5, United States Code, and 
provide the relevant findings to the Assistant Secretary, including a 
finding on whether the data and methods are adequate and valid.
    (b) Prohibition on Hiring.--If the Inspector General finds that 
such data and methods are inadequate or invalid, the Administration 
shall not hire any new employee to work in the Office of Inspection of 
the Administration until--
            (1) the Assistant Secretary makes a certification described 
        in section 5 to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
        of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate; and
            (2) the Inspector General submits to such Committees a 
        finding, not later than 30 days after the Assistant Secretary 
        makes such certification, that the Assistant Secretary utilized 
        adequate and valid data and methods to make such certification.

SEC. 5. TSA OFFICE OF INSPECTION WORKFORCE CERTIFICATION.

    (a) Certification to Congress.--The Assistant Secretary shall, by 
not later than 90 days after the date the Inspector General provides 
its findings to the Assistant Secretary under section 4(a), document 
and certify in writing to the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate that only those Office of Inspection 
employees of the Administration who meet the requirements of sections 
8331(20), 8401(17), and 5545a of title 5, United States Code, are 
classified as criminal investigators and are receiving premium pay and 
other benefits associated with such classification.
    (b) Employee Reclassification.--The Assistant Secretary shall 
reclassify criminal investigator positions in the Office of Inspection 
as noncriminal investigator positions or non-law enforcement positions 
if the individuals in those positions do not, or are not expected to, 
spend an average of at least 50 percent of their time performing 
criminal investigative duties.
    (c) Projected Cost Savings.--
            (1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary shall estimate the 
        total long-term cost savings to the Federal Government 
        resulting from the implementation of subsection (b), and 
        provide such estimate to the Committee on Homeland Security of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate by not later than 180 
        days after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Contents.--Such estimate shall identify savings 
        associated with the positions reclassified under subsection (b) 
        and include, among other factors the Assistant Secretary 
        considers appropriate, savings from--
                    (A) law enforcement training;
                    (B) early retirement benefits;
                    (C) law enforcement availability and other premium 
                pay; and
                    (D) weapons, vehicles, and communications devices.

SEC. 6. INVESTIGATION OF FEDERAL AIR MARSHAL SERVICE MISCONDUCT.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
or as soon as practicable, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on 
the Judiciary of the Senate--
            (1) materials in the possession or control of the 
        Department of Homeland Security associated with the Office of 
        Inspection's review of instances in which Federal Air Marshal 
        Service officials obtained discounted or free firearms for 
        personal use;
            (2) information on specific actions that will be taken to 
        prevent Federal Air Marshal Service officials from using their 
        official positions, or exploiting, in any way, the Service's 
        relationships with private vendors to obtain discounted or free 
        firearms for personal use; and
            (3) information on specific actions that will be taken to 
        prevent the Federal Air Marshal Service from misusing 
        Government resources.

SEC. 7. STUDY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date that the Assistant Secretary 
submits the certification to Congress under section 5(a), the Inspector 
General of the Department of Homeland Security shall submit to the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a study--
            (1) reviewing the employee requirements, responsibilities, 
        and benefits of criminal investigators in the TSA Office of 
        Inspection with criminal investigators employed at agencies 
        adhering to the Office of Personnel Management employee 
        classification system; and
            (2) identifying any inconsistencies and costs implications 
        for differences between the varying employee requirements, 
        responsibilities, and benefits.

SEC. 8. INDEPENDENT AUDIT OF FEDERAL AIR MARSHAL SERVICE PERSONNEL 
              ISSUES.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Inspector General shall submit to the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate a study that--
            (1) reviews the Federal Air Marshal Service's existing 
        personnel policies and procedures for identifying misuse of 
        Government resources; and
            (2) reviews the administration of the Federal Air Marshal 
        Service's existing code of conduct or integrity policies with 
        respect to instances of misconduct.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                H.R. 719

_______________________________________________________________________

                  HOUSE AMENDMENT TO SENATE AMENDMENT
