[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2256 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 143
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2256

                          [Report No. 114-191]

   To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
  Veterans Affairs to submit an annual report on the Veterans Health 
 Administration and the furnishing of hospital care, medical services, 
      and nursing home care by the Department of Veterans Affairs.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 12, 2015

 Mr. Benishek introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

                              July 7, 2015

Reported with amendments, committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
[For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on May 12, 
                                 2015]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
  Veterans Affairs to submit an annual report on the Veterans Health 
 Administration and the furnishing of hospital care, medical services, 
      and nursing home care by the Department of Veterans Affairs.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited a the ``Veterans Information Modernization 
Act''.

SEC. 2. ANNUAL REPORT ON VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION AND FURNISHING 
              OF HOSPITAL CARE, MEDICAL SERVICES, AND NURSING HOME 
              CARE.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 73 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7330B. Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and 
              furnishing of hospital care, medical services, and 
              nursing home care
    ``(a) Report Required.--Not later than March 1 of each year, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the 
Senate and House of Representatives a report on the furnishing of 
hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care under the laws 
administered by the Secretary and on the administration of the 
provision of such care and services by the Veterans Health 
Administration during the calendar year preceding the calendar year 
during which the report is submitted.
    ``(b) Contents of Report.--Each report required by subsection (a) 
shall include each of the following for the year covered by the report:
            ``(1) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Veterans 
        Health Administration program in increasing the access of 
        veterans eligible for hospital care, medical services, and 
        nursing home care furnished by the Secretary to such care.
            ``(2) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Veterans 
        Health Administration in improving the quality of health care 
        provided to such veterans, without increasing the costs 
        incurred by the Government or such veterans, which includes the 
        relevant information for each medical center and Veterans 
        Integrated Service Network of the Department set forth 
        separately.
            ``(3) An assessment of--
                    ``(A) the workload of physicians and other 
                employees of the Veterans Health Administration;
                    ``(B) patient demographics and utilization rates;
                    ``(C) physician compensation;
                    ``(D) the productivity of physicians and other 
                employees of the Veterans Health Administration;
                    ``(E) the percentage of hospital care, medical 
                services, and nursing home care provided to such 
                veterans in Department facilities and in non-Department 
                facilities and any changes in such percentages compared 
                to the year preceding the year covered by the report;
                    ``(F) pharmaceutical prices; and
                    ``(G) third party health billings owed to the 
                Department, including the total amount of such billings 
                and the total amounts collected, set forth separately 
                for claims greater than $1000 and for claims equal to 
                or less than $1000.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms `hospital care', 
`medical services', `nursing home care', and `non-Department 
facilities' have the meanings given such terms in section 1701 of this 
title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
7330A the following new item:

``7330B. Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and furnishing 
                            of hospital care, medical services, and 
                            nursing home care.''.

SEC. 3. EXPANSION OF DEFINITION OF HOMELESS VETERAN FOR PURPOSES OF 
              BENEFITS UNDER THE LAWS ADMINISTERED BY THE SECRETARY OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    Section 2002(1) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``or (b)'' after ``section 103(a)''.

SEC. 4. IDENTIFICATION AND TRACKING OF BIOLOGICAL IMPLANTS USED IN 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 73 of title 38, United 
States Code, as amended by section 2, is further amended by adding at 
the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7330C. Identification and tracking of biological implants
    ``(a) Standard Identification System for Biological Implants.--(1) 
The Secretary shall adopt the unique device identification system 
developed for medical devices by the Food and Drug Administration 
pursuant to section 519(f) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
(21 U.S.C. 360i(f)), or implement a comparable standard identification 
system, for use in identifying biological implants intended for use in 
medical procedures conducted in medical facilities of the Department.
    ``(2) In adopting or implementing a standard identification system 
for biological implants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall permit 
a vendor to use any of the accredited entities identified by the Food 
and Drug Administration as an issuing agency pursuant to section 
830.100 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
regulation.
    ``(b) Biological Implant Tracking System.--(1) The Secretary shall 
implement a system for tracking the biological implants referred to in 
subsection (a) from human donor or animal source to implantation.
    ``(2) The tracking system implemented under paragraph (1) shall be 
compatible with the identification system adopted or implemented under 
subsection (a).
    ``(3) The Secretary shall implement inventory controls compatible 
with the tracking system implemented under paragraph (1) so that all 
patients who have received, in a medical facility of the Department, a 
biological implant subject to a recall can be notified of the recall, 
if based on the evaluation of appropriate medical personnel of the 
Department of the risks and benefits, the Secretary determines such 
notification is appropriate.
    ``(c) Consistency With Food and Drug Administration Regulations.--
To the extent that a conflict arises between this section and a 
provision of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et 
seq.) or sections 351 or 361 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 262) (including any regulations issued under such Acts), the 
provision the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or Public Health 
Service Act (including any regulations issued under such Acts) shall 
apply.
    ``(d) Definition of Biological Implant.--In this section, the term 
`biological implant' means any animal or human cell, tissue, or 
cellular or tissue-based product--
            ``(1) under the meaning given the term human cells, 
        tissues, or cellular or tissue-based products in section 1271.3 
        of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
        regulation; or
            ``(2) that is regulated as a device under section 201(h) of 
        the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter, as amended by section 2, is further amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 7330B, as added by section 2, the 
following new item:

``7330C. Identification and tracking of biological implants.''.
    (c) Implementation Deadlines.--
            (1) Standard identification system.--
                    (A) In general.--With respect to biological 
                implants described in paragraph (1) of subsection (d) 
                of section 7330C of title 38, United States Code, as 
                added by subsection (a), the Secretary of Veterans 
                Affairs shall adopt or implement a standard 
                identification system for biological implants, as 
                required by subsection (a) of such section, by not 
                later than the date that is 180 days after the date of 
                the enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Implants regulated as devices.--With respect to 
                biological implants described in paragraph (2) of 
                subsection (d) of such section, the Secretary of 
                Veterans Affairs shall adopt or implement such standard 
                identification system in compliance with the compliance 
                dates established by the Food and Drug Administration 
                pursuant to section 519(f) of the Federal Food, Drug, 
                and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360i(f)).
            (2) Tracking system.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall implement the biological implant tracking system required 
        by section 7330C(b), as added by subsection (a), by not later 
        than the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act.
    (d) Reporting Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--If the biological implant tracking system 
        required by section 7330C(b) of title 38, United States Code, 
        as added by subsection (a), is not operational by the date that 
        is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a 
        written explanation for why the system is not operational for 
        each month until such time as the system is operational.
            (2) Elements.--Each explanation submitted under paragraph 
        (1) shall include a description of the following:
                    (A) Each impediment to the implementation of the 
                system described in such paragraph.
                    (B) Steps being taken to remediate each such 
                impediment.
                    (C) Target dates for a solution to each such 
                impediment.

SEC. 5. PROCUREMENT OF BIOLOGICAL IMPLANTS USED IN DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITIES.

    (a) Procurement.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 81 of such title 
        is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 8129. Procurement of biological implants
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary may procure biological 
implants of human origin only from vendors that meet the following 
conditions:
            ``(A) The vendor uses the standard identification system 
        adopted or implemented by the Secretary under section 7330C(a) 
        of this title and has safeguards to ensure that a distinct 
        identity code has been in place at each step of distribution of 
        each biological implant from its donor.
            ``(B) The vendor is registered as required by the Food and 
        Drug Administration under subpart B of part 1271 of title 21, 
        Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation, and 
        in the case of a vendor that uses a tissue distribution 
        intermediary or a tissue processor, the vendor provides 
        assurances that the tissue distribution intermediary or tissue 
        processor is registered as required by the Food and Drug 
        Administration.
            ``(C) The vendor ensures that donor eligibility 
        determinations and such other records as the Secretary may 
        require accompany each biological implant at all times, 
        regardless of the country of origin of the donor of the 
        biological material.
            ``(D) The vendor agrees to cooperate with all biological 
        implant recalls conducted on the vendor's own initiative, on 
        the initiative of the original product manufacturer used by the 
        vendor, by the request of the Food and Drug Administration, or 
        by a statutory order of the Food and Drug Administration.
            ``(E) The vendor agrees to notify the Secretary of any 
        adverse event or reaction report it provides to the Food and 
        Drug Administration, as required by section 1271.350 of title 
        21, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation, 
        or any successor regulation, or of any warning letter from the 
        Food and Drug Administration issued to the vendor or a tissue 
        processor or tissue distribution intermediary it uses by not 
        later than 60 days after the vendor receives such report or 
        warning letter.
            ``(F) The vendor agrees to retain all records associated 
        with the procurement of a biological implant by the Department 
        for at least 10 years after the date of the procurement of the 
        biological implant.
            ``(G) The vendor provides assurances that the biological 
        implants provided by the vendor are acquired only from tissue 
        processors that maintain active accreditation with the American 
        Association of Tissue Banks or a similar national accreditation 
        specific to biological implants.
    ``(2) The Secretary may procure biological implants of non-human 
origin only from vendors that meet the following conditions:
            ``(A) The vendor uses the standard identification system 
        adopted or implemented by the Secretary under section 7330C(a) 
        of this title.
            ``(B) The vendor is a registered establishment as required 
        by the Food and Drug Administration under sections 807.20 and 
        807.40 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
        successor regulation, (or is not required to register pursuant 
        to section 807.65(a) of such title) and in the case of a vendor 
        that is not the original product manufacturer of such implants 
        the vendor provides assurances that the original product 
        manufacturer is registered as required by the Food and Drug 
        Administration.
            ``(C) The vendor agrees to cooperate with all biological 
        implant recalls conducted on the vendor's own initiative, on 
        the initiative of the original product manufacturer used by the 
        vendor, by the request of the Food and Drug Administration, or 
        by a statutory order of the Food and Drug Administration.
            ``(D) The vendor agrees to notify the Secretary of any 
        adverse event report it provides to the Food and Drug 
        Administration as required in part 803 of title 21, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, or any warning letter from the Food and 
        Drug Administration issued to the vendor or the original 
        product manufacturer it uses by not later than 60 days after 
        the vendor receives such report or warning letter.
            ``(E) The vendor agrees to retain all records associated 
        with the procurement of a biological implant by the Department 
        for at least 10 years after the date of the procurement of the 
        biological implant.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary shall procure biological implants under the 
Federal Supply Schedules of the General Services Administration unless 
such implants are not available under such Schedules.
    ``(B) With respect to biological implants listed on the Federal 
Supply Schedules, the Secretary shall accommodate reasonable vendor 
requests to undertake outreach efforts to educate medical professionals 
of the Department about the use and efficacy of such biological 
implants.
    ``(C) In the case of biological implants that are unavailable for 
procurement under the Federal Supply Schedules, the Secretary shall 
procure such implants using competitive procedures in accordance with 
applicable law and the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
    ``(4) Section 8123 of this title shall not apply to the procurement 
of biological implants.
    ``(b) Penalties.--In addition to any applicable penalty under any 
other provision of law, any procurement employee of the Department who 
is found responsible for a biological implant procurement transaction 
with intent to avoid or with reckless disregard of the requirements of 
this section shall be ineligible to hold a certificate of appointment 
as a contracting officer or to serve as the representative of an 
ordering officer, contracting officer, or purchase card holder.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `biological implant' shall have the meaning 
        given such term in section 7330C(d) of this title.
            ``(2) The term `distinct identity code' means a code that--
                    ``(A) relates a biological implant to the human 
                donor of the implant and to all records pertaining to 
                the implant;
                    ``(B) includes information designed to facilitate 
                effective tracking, using such code, from the donor to 
                the recipient and from the recipient to the donor; and
                    ``(C) satisfies the requirements of section 
                1271.290 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, or 
                any successor regulation.
            ``(3) The term `tissue distribution intermediary' means an 
        agency that acquires and stores human tissue for further 
        distribution and performs no other tissue banking functions.
            ``(4) The term `tissue processor' means an entity 
        processing human tissue for use in biological implants 
        including activities performed on tissue other than donor 
        screening, donor testing, tissue recovery and collection 
        functions, storage, or distribution.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end of 
        the items relating to such subchapter the following new item:

``8129. Procurement of biological implants.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Section 8129 of title 38, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on the date that is 180 
days after the date on which the tracking system required under 
subsection (b) of section 7330C of such title, as added by section 4(a) 
is implemented.
    (c) Special Rule for Cryopreserved Products.--During the three-year 
period beginning on the effective date of section 8129 of title 38, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), biological implants 
produced and labeled before that date may be procured by the Department 
of Veterans Affairs without relabeling under the standard 
identification system adopted or implemented under section 7330C of 
such title, as added by section 4(a).

SEC. 6. EXTENSION OF ROUNDING DOWN OF PERCENTAGE INCREASES OF RATES OF 
              CERTAIN EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Montgomery GI Bill.--Section 3015(h)(2) of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2014'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2020''; and
            (2) by striking ``fiscal year 2013'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2019''.
    (b) Survivors and Dependents Educational Assistance.--Section 
3564(b) of such title is amended--
            (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2014'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2020''; and
            (2) by striking ``fiscal year 2013'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2019''.

SEC. 7. VETERANS EXPEDITED RECOVERY COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Veterans Expedited 
Recovery Commission (in this section referred to as the 
``Commission'').
    (b) Duties.--The Commission shall perform the following duties:
            (1) Examine the efficacy of the evidence-based therapy 
        model used by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for treating 
        mental health illnesses of veterans and identify areas to 
        improve wellness-based outcomes.
            (2) Conduct a patient-centered survey within each of the 
        Veterans Integrated Service Networks to examine--
                    (A) the experience of veterans with the Department 
                of Veterans Affairs when seeking medical assistance for 
                mental health issues through the health care system of 
                the Department;
                    (B) the experience of veterans with non-Department 
                medical facilities and health professionals for 
                treating mental health issues;
                    (C) the preferences of veterans regarding available 
                treatments for mental health issues and which methods 
                the veterans believe to be most effective;
                    (D) the experience, if any, of veterans with 
                respect to the complementary alternative treatment 
                therapies described in subparagraphs (A) through (I) in 
                paragraph (3);
                    (E) the prevalence of prescribing prescription 
                medication among veterans seeking treatment through the 
                health care system of the Department as remedies for 
                addressing mental health issues; and
                    (F) the outreach efforts of the Secretary regarding 
                the availability of benefits and treatments for 
                veterans for addressing mental health issues, including 
                by identifying ways to reduce barriers to and gaps in 
                such benefits and treatments.
            (3) Examine available research on complementary alternative 
        treatment therapies for mental health issues and identify what 
        benefits could be made with the inclusion of such treatments 
        for veterans, including with respect to--
                    (A) music therapy;
                    (B) equine therapy;
                    (C) training and caring for service dogs;
                    (D) yoga therapy;
                    (E) acupuncture therapy;
                    (F) meditation therapy;
                    (G) outdoor sports therapy;
                    (H) hyperbaric oxygen therapy;
                    (I) accelerated resolution therapy; and
                    (J) other therapies the Commission determines 
                appropriate.
            (4) Study the potential increase of claims relating to 
        mental health issues submitted to the Secretary by veterans who 
        served in Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, 
        or Operation New Dawn, including an assessment of the resources 
        available within the Department to ensure that quality health 
        care demands relating to such claims can be delivered in a 
        timely manner.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) Number and appointment.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission shall be composed 
                of 10 members, appointed as follows:
                            (i) Two members appointed by the Speaker of 
                        the House of Representatives, at least one of 
                        whom shall be a veteran.
                            (ii) Two members appointed by the Minority 
                        Leader of the House of Representatives, at 
                        least one of whom shall be a veteran.
                            (iii) Two members appointed by the Majority 
                        Leader of the Senate, at least one of whom 
                        shall be a veteran.
                            (iv) Two members appointed by the Minority 
                        Leader of the Senate, at least one of whom 
                        shall be a veteran.
                            (v) Two members appointed by the President, 
                        at least one of whom shall be a veteran.
                    (B) Qualifications.--Members of the Commission 
                shall be--
                            (i) individuals who are of recognized 
                        standing and distinction within the medical 
                        community with a background in treating mental 
                        health;
                            (ii) individuals with experience working 
                        with the military and veteran population; and
                            (iii) individuals who do not have a 
                        financial interest in any of the complementary 
                        alternative treatments reviewed by the 
                        Commission.
            (2) Chairman.--The President shall designate a member of 
        the Commission to be the chairman.
            (3) Period of appointment.--Members of the Commission shall 
        be appointed for the life of the Commission.
            (4) Vacancy.--A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled 
        in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
            (5) Appointment deadline.--The appointment of members of 
        the Commission in this section shall be made not later than 90 
        days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Powers of Commission.--
            (1) Meeting.--
                    (A) Initial meeting.--The Commission shall hold its 
                first meeting not later than 30 days after a majority 
                of members are appointed to the Commission.
                    (B) Meeting.--The Commission shall regularly meet 
                at the call of the Chairman. Such meetings may be 
                carried out through the use of telephonic or other 
                appropriate telecommunication technology if the 
                Commission determines that such technology will allow 
                the members to communicate simultaneously.
            (2) Hearing.--The Commission may hold such hearings, sit 
        and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and 
        receive evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry 
        out the responsibilities of the Commission.
            (3) Information from federal agencies.--The Commission may 
        secure directly from any department or agency of the Federal 
        Government such information as the Commission considers 
        necessary to carry out the duties of the Commission.
            (4) Information from nongovernmental organizations.--In 
        carrying out subsection (b), the Commission may seek guidance 
        through consultation with foundations, veterans service 
        organizations, nonprofit groups, faith-based organizations, 
        private and public institutions of higher education, and other 
        organizations as the Commission determines appropriate.
            (5) Commission records.--The Commission shall keep an 
        accurate and complete record of the actions and meetings of the 
        Commission. Such record shall be made available for public 
        inspection and the Comptroller General of the United States may 
        audit and examine such record.
            (6) Personnel matters.--Upon request of the chairman of the 
        Commission, the head of any department or agency of the Federal 
        Government may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any personnel 
        of that department or agency to assist the Commission in 
        carrying out the duties of the Commission.
            (7) Compensation of members; travel expenses.--Each member 
        shall serve without pay, except that each member shall receive 
        travel expenses to perform the duties of the Commission under 
        subsection (b), including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at 
        rates authorized under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (8) Staff.--The Chairman, in accordance with rules agreed 
        upon by the Commission, may appoint and fix the compensation of 
        a staff director and such other personnel as may be necessary 
        to enable the Commission to carry out its functions, without 
        regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
        governing appointments in the competitive service, without 
        regard to the provision of chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
        chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General 
        Schedule pay rates, except that no rate of pay fixed under this 
        subsection may exceed the equivalent of that payable for a 
        position at a level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
        5316 of title 5, United States Code.
            (9) Personnel as federal employees.--
                    (A) In general.--The executive director and any 
                personnel of the Commission are employees under section 
                2105 of title 5, United States Code, for purpose of 
                chapters 63, 81, 83, 84, 85, 87, 89, and 90 of such 
                title.
                    (B) Members of the commission.--Subparagraph (A) 
                shall not be construed to apply to members of the 
                Commission.
            (10) Contracting.--The Commission may, to such extent and 
        in such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts, enter 
        into contracts to enable the Commission to discharge the duties 
        of the Commission under this section.
            (11) Expert and consultant service.--The Commission may 
        procure the services of experts and consultants in accordance 
        with section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, at rates not 
        to exceed the daily rate paid to a person occupying a position 
        at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of 
        title 5, United States Code.
            (12) Postal service.--The Commission may use the United 
        States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions 
        as departments and agencies of the United States.
            (13) Physical facilities and equipment.--Upon the request 
        of the Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall 
        provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the 
        administrative support services necessary for the Commission to 
        carry out its responsibilities under this section. These 
        administrative services may include human resource management, 
        budget, leasing, accounting, and payroll services.
    (e) Report.--
            (1) Interim reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                date on which the Commission first meets, and each 30-
                day period thereafter ending on the date on which the 
                Commission submits the final report under paragraph 
                (2), the Commission shall submit to the Committees on 
                Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives and 
                the Senate and the President a report detailing the 
                level of cooperation the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
                (and the heads of other departments or agencies of the 
                Federal Government) has provided to the Commission.
                    (B) Other reports.--In carrying out the duties 
                pursuant to subsection (b), at times that the 
                Commission determines appropriate, the Commission shall 
                submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives and the Senate and any other 
                appropriate entities an interim report with respect to 
                the findings identified by the Commission.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 18 months after the first 
        meeting of the Commission, the Commission shall submit to the 
        Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        and the Senate, the President, and the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs a final report on the findings of the Commission. Such 
        report shall include the following:
                    (A) Recommendations to implement in a feasible, 
                timely, and cost-effective manner the solutions and 
                remedies identified within the findings of the 
                Commission pursuant to subsection (b).
                    (B) An analysis of the evidence-based therapy model 
                used by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for treating 
                veterans with mental health care issues, and an 
                examination of the prevalence and efficacy of 
                prescription drugs as a means for treatment.
                    (C) The findings of the patient-centered survey 
                conducted within each of the Veterans Integrated 
                Service Networks pursuant to subsection (b)(2).
                    (D) An examination of complementary alternative 
                treatments described in subsection (b)(3) and the 
                potential benefits of incorporating such treatments in 
                the therapy model used by the Secretary for treating 
                veterans with mental health issues.
            (3) Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which 
        the Commission submits the final report under subsection (b), 
        the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
        Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        and the Senate a report on the following:
                    (A) An action plan for implementing the 
                recommendations established by the Commission on such 
                solutions and remedies for improving wellness-based 
                outcomes for veterans with mental health care issues.
                    (B) A feasible timeframe on when complementary 
                alternative treatments described in subsection (b)(3) 
                can be implemented Department-wide.
                    (C) With respect to each recommendation established 
                by the Commission, including regarding any 
                complementary alternative treatment, that the Secretary 
                determines is not appropriate or feasible to implement, 
                a justification for each such determination and an 
                alternative solution to improve the efficacy of the 
                therapy model used by the Secretary for treating 
                veterans with mental health issues.
    (f) Termination of Commission.--The Commission shall terminate 30 
days after the Commission submits the final report under subsection 
(e)(2).
            Amend the title so as to read: ``A bill to amend title 38, 
        United States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        to submit an annual report on the Veterans Health 
        Administration, to provide for the identification and tracking 
        of biological implants used in Department of Veterans Affairs 
        facilities, and for other purposes.''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 143

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 2256

                          [Report No. 114-191]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
  Veterans Affairs to submit an annual report on the Veterans Health 
 Administration and the furnishing of hospital care, medical services, 
      and nursing home care by the Department of Veterans Affairs.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              July 7, 2015

Reported with amendments, committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
