[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 461 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                  House Calendar No. 63
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 461

                          [Report No. 114-288]

 Establishing a Select Investigative Panel of the Committee on Energy 
                             and Commerce.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 6, 2015

     Ms. Foxx, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Establishing a Select Investigative Panel of the Committee on Energy 
                             and Commerce.

    Resolved, That there is hereby established a Select Investigative 
Panel of the Committee on Energy and Commerce (hereinafter ``select 
panel'').
    Sec. 2. (a) The select panel shall be composed of not more than 13 
Members, Delegates, or the Resident Commissioner appointed by the 
Speaker, of whom not more than five shall be appointed on the 
recommendation of the minority leader. Any vacancy in the select panel 
shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
    (b) Each member appointed to the select panel shall be treated as 
though a member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce for purposes of 
the select panel.
    (c) No member may serve on the select panel in an ex officio 
capacity.
    (d) The Speaker shall designate as chair of the select panel a 
member elected to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
    Sec. 3. (a) The select panel is authorized and directed to conduct 
a full and complete investigation and study and issue a final report of 
its findings (and such interim reports as it may deem necessary) 
regarding--
            (1) medical procedures and business practices used by 
        entities involved in fetal tissue procurement;
            (2) any other relevant matters with respect to fetal tissue 
        procurement;
            (3) Federal funding and support for abortion providers;
            (4) the practices of providers of second and third 
        trimester abortions, including partial birth abortion and 
        procedures that may lead to a child born alive as a result of 
        an attempted abortion;
            (5) medical procedures for the care of a child born alive 
        as a result of an attempted abortion; and
            (6) any changes in law or regulation necessary as a result 
        of any findings made under this subsection.
    (b) The chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce shall cause 
any such report to be printed and made publicly available in electronic 
form.
    Sec. 4.  Rule XI and the rules of the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce shall apply to the select panel in the same manner as a 
subcommittee except as follows:
            (1) The chair of the select panel may authorize and issue 
        subpoenas pursuant to clause 2(m) of rule XI in the 
        investigation and study conducted pursuant to section 3, 
        including for the purpose of taking depositions.
            (2) The chair of the select panel, upon consultation with 
        the ranking minority member, may order the taking of 
        depositions, under oath and pursuant to notice or subpoena, by 
        a member of the select panel or a counsel of the select panel. 
        Such depositions shall be governed by the regulations issued by 
        the chair of the Committee on Rules pursuant to section 3(b)(2) 
        of House Resolution 5, One Hundred Fourteenth Congress, and 
        printed in the Congressional Record. The select panel shall be 
        deemed to be a committee for purposes of such regulations.
            (3) The chair of the select panel may, after consultation 
        with the ranking minority member, recognize--
                    (A) members of the select panel to question a 
                witness for periods longer than five minutes as though 
                pursuant to clause 2(j)(2)(B) of rule XI; and
                    (B) staff of the select panel to question a witness 
                as though pursuant to clause 2(j)(2)(C) of rule XI.
    Sec. 5.  Service on the select panel shall not count against the 
limitations in clause 5(b)(2)(A) of rule X.
    Sec. 6.  The select panel shall cease to exist 30 days after filing 
the final report required under section 3.
                                                  House Calendar No. 63

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 461

                          [Report No. 114-288]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Establishing a Select Investigative Panel of the Committee on Energy 
                             and Commerce.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 6, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
