[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5748 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5748

To establish the Adams Memorial Commission to carry out the provisions 
             of Public Law 107-62, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 13, 2016

  Mr. Lynch (for himself, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Keating, Ms. 
    Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Neal, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
McGovern, Mr. Moulton, and Mr. Capuano) introduced the following bill; 
        which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish the Adams Memorial Commission to carry out the provisions 
             of Public Law 107-62, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ADAMS MEMORIAL COMMISSION.

    (a) Commission.--There is established a commission to be known as 
the ``Adams Memorial Commission'' (referred to in this section as the 
``Commission'') for the purpose of establishing a permanent memorial to 
honor John Adams and his legacy as authorized by Public Law 107-62, 
located in the city of Washington, District of Columbia, including 
sites authorized by Public Law 107-315.
    (b) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of--
            (1) four persons appointed by the President, not more than 
        two of whom may be members of the same political party;
            (2) four Members of the Senate appointed by the President 
        Pro Tempore of the Senate in consultation with the Majority 
        Leader and Minority Leader of the Senate, of which not more 
        than two appointees may be members of the same political party; 
        and
            (3) four Members of the House of Representatives appointed 
        by the Speaker of the House of Representatives in consultation 
        with the Majority Leader and Minority Leader of the House of 
        Representatives, of which not more than two appointees may be 
        members of the same political party.
    (c) Chair and Vice Chair.--The members of the Commission shall 
select a Chair and Vice Chair of the Commission. The Chair and Vice 
Chair shall not be members of the same political party.
    (d) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its 
powers if a quorum is present, but shall be filled in the same manner 
as the original appointment.
    (e) Meetings.--
            (1) Initial meeting.--Not later than 45 days after the date 
        on which a majority of the members of the Commission have been 
        appointed, the Commission shall hold its first meeting.
            (2) Subsequent meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the 
        call of the Chair.
    (f) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission shall 
constitute a quorum but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
    (g) No Compensation.--A member of the Commission shall serve 
without compensation, but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in 
carrying out the duties of the Commission.
    (h) Duties.--The Commission shall consider and formulate plans for 
a permanent memorial to honor John Adams and his legacy, including the 
nature, location, design, and construction of the memorial.
    (i) Powers.--The Commission may--
            (1) make such expenditures for services and materials for 
        the purpose of carrying out this section as the Commission 
        considers advisable from funds appropriated or received as 
        gifts for that purpose;
            (2) accept gifts to be used in carrying out this section or 
        to be used in connection with the construction or other 
        expenses of the memorial; and
            (3) hold hearings, enter into contracts for personal 
        services and otherwise, and do such other things as are 
        necessary to carry out this section.
    (j) Reports.--The Commission shall--
            (1) report the plans required by subsection (h), together 
        with recommendations, to the President and the Congress at the 
        earliest practicable date; and
            (2) in the interim, make annual reports on its progress to 
        the President and the Congress.
    (k) Applicability of Other Laws.--The Federal Advisory Committee 
Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Commission.
    (l) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate 7 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (m) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out this Act.

SEC. 2. AMENDMENT TO PUBLIC LAW 107-62.

    Public Law 107-62 is amended by striking ``Adams Memorial 
Foundation'' each place it occurs and inserting ``Adams Memorial 
Commission''.
                                 <all>
