[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3249 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3249

 To direct the Secretary of Agriculture to convey to the Pat Harrison 
 Waterway District approximately 8,307 acres of National Forest System 
  land within the Bienville National Forests in Mississippi, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 28, 2015

  Mr. Harper (for himself, Mr. Palazzo, and Mr. Kelly of Mississippi) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                              Agriculture

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Secretary of Agriculture to convey to the Pat Harrison 
 Waterway District approximately 8,307 acres of National Forest System 
  land within the Bienville National Forests in Mississippi, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Mid-Mississippi Conservation, 
Recreation, and Development Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE TO THE PAT HARRISON WATERWAY DISTRICT OF THE STATE 
              OF MISSISSIPPI.

    (a) Conveyance.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall convey to the 
Pat Harrison Waterway District, without consideration, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the approximately 
8,307 acres of National Forest System land within the Bienville 
National Forests of Mississippi identified as ``Oakohay/Little Oakohay 
Lake, Smith County, Mississippi'' on the map entitled ``Mid-Mississippi 
Conservation, Recreation and Development'' and dated April 2, 2014.
    (b) Survey.--If determined by the Secretary of Agriculture to be 
necessary, the exact acreage and legal description of the National 
Forest System land shall be determined by a survey approved by the 
Secretary.
    (c) Use of Land.--As a condition of the conveyance under subsection 
(a), the Pat Harrison Waterway District shall use the land conveyed 
under subsection (a) only for public purposes consistent with the laws 
of the State of Mississippi.

SEC. 3. REVERSIONARY INTEREST.

    If any parcel of land conveyed under this title ceases to be used 
for the public purpose for which the parcel was conveyed, the parcel 
shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, based on a determination 
that reversion is in the best interests of the United States, revert to 
the United States.
                                 <all>
