[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6252 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6252

To make any city or county that has in effect any law or ordinance that 
 is in violation of Federal immigration law ineligible for any Federal 
                     grant, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 28, 2016

 Mr. Grothman introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees on 
Oversight and Government Reform, and Education and the Workforce, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To make any city or county that has in effect any law or ordinance that 
 is in violation of Federal immigration law ineligible for any Federal 
                     grant, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ending Sanctuary Cities Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. INELIGIBILITY FOR FEDERAL GRANTS OF CERTAIN JURISDICTIONS THAT 
              VIOLATE THE IMMIGRATION LAWS.

    (a) Ineligible Jurisdictions.--A State or unit of local government 
is an ineligible jurisdiction for purposes of this section if that 
State or unit of local government--
            (1) violates section 642 of the Illegal Immigration Reform 
        and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1373);
            (2) otherwise restricts compliance with a detainer issued 
        by the Secretary of Homeland Security; or
            (3) has any law or policy in effect that violates the 
        immigration laws.
    (b) Annual Determination of Ineligible Jurisdictions.--Not later 
than March 1, 2017, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall make a determination as to whether each State or unit of 
local government is an ineligible jurisdiction under subsection (a) and 
submit such determinations to Congress.
    (c) Prohibition on Federal Financial Assistance.--A State or unit 
of local government that is determined to be an ineligible jurisdiction 
may not receive any Federal financial assistance (as such term is 
defined in section 7501(a)(5) of title 31, United States Code) for the 
fiscal year following any fiscal year in which the Secretary of 
Homeland Security determines that the State or unit of local government 
is an ineligible jurisdiction under subsection (b).

SEC. 3. LIMITATION ON LIABILITY FOR COMPLIANCE WITH DETAINER.

    A State or unit of local government, and any law enforcement 
officer of such State or unit of local government, acting in compliance 
with a detainer issued by the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall be 
considered to be acting under color of Federal authority for purposes 
of determining liability, and immunity from suit, in any civil action 
brought by the alien under Federal or State law.

SEC. 4. WORKPLACE PROTECTIONS FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT.

    Section 15(a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 215(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
            (2) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(6) in the case of a State or unit of local government, 
        to discharge or in any other manner discriminate against any 
        law enforcement officer of that State or unit of local 
        government because such law enforcement officer has taken any 
        action to comply with a detainer (as such term is defined in 
        section 4 of the Ending Sanctuary Cities Act of 2016) issued by 
        the Secretary of Homeland Security.''.

SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) The term ``detainer'' means any order or request by the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security--
                    (A) to temporarily hold an alien in custody until 
                such alien may be taken into Federal custody;
                    (B) to transport an alien for transfer to Federal 
                custody; or
                    (C) to notify the Secretary prior to the release of 
                an alien from State or local custody.
            (2) The term ``immigration laws'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality 
        Act.
            (3) The term ``unit of local government'' has the meaning 
        given such term under section 901(a)(3) of the Omnibus Crime 
        Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3791(a)(3)).
                                 <all>
