[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4843 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4843

   To amend the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to require 
       certain monitoring and oversight, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 23, 2016

    Mr. Barletta (for himself, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Kline, Ms. Clark of 
  Massachusetts, Mr. Polis, and Mr. Scott of Virginia) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Education and 
                             the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to require 
       certain monitoring and oversight, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Improving Safe Care for the 
Prevention of Infant Abuse and Neglect Act''.

SEC. 2. BEST PRACTICES FOR DEVELOPMENT OF PLANS OF SAFE CARE.

    Section 103(b) of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 
U.S.C. 5104(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (8) as 
        paragraphs (6) through (9), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4), the following:
            ``(5) maintain and disseminate information about the best 
        practices relating to the development of plans of safe care as 
        described in section 106(b)(2)(B)(iii) for infants born and 
        identified as being affected by illegal substance abuse or 
        withdrawal symptoms, or a Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder;''.

SEC. 3. STATE PLANS.

    Section 106(b)(2)(B)(iii) of the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)(2)(B)(iii)) is amended by inserting 
before the period at the end the following: ``to ensure the safety and 
well-being of such infant following release from the care of healthcare 
providers, including through addressing the health of the affected 
family or caregiver''.

SEC. 4. DATA REPORTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 106(d) of the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(d)) is amended by adding at the end of 
the following:
            ``(17) The total number of infants--
                    ``(A) identified under subsection (b)(2)(B)(ii);
                    ``(B) for whom a plan of safe care was developed 
                under subsection (b)(2)(B)(iii); and
                    ``(C) for whom referrals are made for appropriate 
                services, including services for the affected family or 
                caregiver, as may be necessary under subsection 
                (b)(2)(B)(iii).''.
    (b) Redesignation.--Effective on May 29, 2017, section 106(d) of 
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(d)) is 
amended by redesignating paragraph (17) (as added by subsection (a)) as 
paragraph (18).

SEC. 5. MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT.

    (a) Amendment.--Title I of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) is further amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 114. MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT.

    ``The Secretary shall conduct monitoring to ensure that each State 
that receives a grant under section 106 is in compliance with the 
requirements of section 106(b), which--
            ``(1) shall--
                    ``(A) be in addition to the review of the State 
                plan upon its submission under section 106(b)(1)(A); 
                and
                    ``(B) include monitoring of State policies and 
                procedures required under clauses (ii) and (iii) of 
                section 106(b)(2)(B); and
            ``(2) may include--
                    ``(A) a comparison of activities carried out by the 
                State to comply with the requirements of section 106(b) 
                with the State plan most recently approved under 
                section 432 of the Social Security Act;
                    ``(B) information available on the Website of the 
                State relating to its compliance with the requirements 
                of section 106(b);
                    ``(C) site visits, as may be necessary to carry out 
                such monitoring; and
                    ``(D) information available in the State's Annual 
                Progress and Services Report most recently submitted 
                under section 1357.16 of title 45, Code of Federal 
                Regulations (or successor regulations).''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5101 note) is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 113, the 
following:

``Sec. 114. Monitoring and oversight.''.

SEC. 6. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services or any other officer of the Federal 
Government to add new requirements to section 106(b) of the Child Abuse 
Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)), as amended by this 
Act.
                                 <all>
