[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4431 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4431

    To direct the Attorney General to reimburse State and local law 
enforcement agencies for costs incurred in carrying out law enforcement 
activities associated with the armed occupation of the Malheur National 
                Wildlife Refuge, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 2, 2016

Mr. Blumenauer introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To direct the Attorney General to reimburse State and local law 
enforcement agencies for costs incurred in carrying out law enforcement 
activities associated with the armed occupation of the Malheur National 
                Wildlife Refuge, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REIMBURSEMENT FOR STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES 
              AT THE MALHEUR NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall make payments to 
State and local law enforcement agencies to reimburse such agencies for 
costs incurred in carrying out law enforcement activities associated 
with the armed occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in 
Harney County, Oregon, beginning on January 2, 2016, and ending on the 
date on which the occupation ends, as determined by the Attorney 
General.
    (b) Applications.--A State or local law enforcement agency seeking 
reimbursement under this section shall submit to the Attorney General 
an application at such time and in such manner as the Attorney General 
may reasonably require, which shall include the amount requested, and a 
description of how such amounts were expended by the agency in response 
to the situation described in subsection (a).
    (c) Amount.--A payment under this section shall be in the amount 
that the State or local law enforcement agency expended in excess of 
the agency's budget for responding to a situation described in 
subsection (a). The Attorney General shall determine the amount of a 
payment under this section based on the information provided in the 
application by the State or local law enforcement agency.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section limits the 
recovery to which a State or local law enforcement agency may be 
entitled in a civil action arising out of a situation described in 
subsection (a).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 2. CIVIL ACTION.

    If the Attorney General makes a payment under section 1, the 
Attorney General may bring a civil action against an individual who was 
a participant in the armed occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife 
Refuge in Harney County, Oregon, during the time period described in 
subsection (a) in the appropriate district court of the United States 
in order to recover the costs of that payment.
                                 <all>
