[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2300 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2300

      To require that supplemental certifications and background 
investigations be completed prior to the admission of certain aliens as 
                   refugees, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 18, 2015

  Mr. Johnson introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To require that supplemental certifications and background 
investigations be completed prior to the admission of certain aliens as 
                   refugees, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``American Security Against Foreign 
Enemies Act of 2015'' or the ``American SAFE Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Covered alien.--The term ``covered alien'' means any 
        alien applying for admission to the United States as a refugee 
        who--
                    (A) is a national or resident of Iraq or of Syria;
                    (B) has no nationality and whose last habitual 
                residence was in Iraq or in Syria; or
                    (C) has been present in Iraq or in Syria at any 
                time on or after March 1, 2011.
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
                    (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
                Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (E) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate;
                    (F) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
                    (G) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (H) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                of the House of Representatives;
                    (I) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (J) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (K) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (L) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.

SEC. 3. REVIEW OF REFUGEES TO IDENTIFY SECURITY THREATS TO THE UNITED 
              STATES.

    (a) Background Investigation.--In addition to the screening 
conducted by the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation shall take all actions necessary to 
ensure that each covered alien receives a thorough background 
investigation prior to admission as a refugee. A covered alien may not 
be admitted as a refugee until the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation certifies to the Secretary of Homeland Security and the 
Director of National Intelligence that each covered alien has received 
a background investigation that is sufficient to determine whether the 
covered alien is a threat to the security of the United States.
    (b) Certification by Unanimous Concurrence.--A covered alien may 
only be admitted to the United States after the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, with the unanimous concurrence of the Director of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation and the Director of National Intelligence, 
certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the covered 
alien is not a threat to the security of the United States.
    (c) Inspector General Review of Certifications.--The Inspector 
General of the Department of Homeland Security shall--
            (1) conduct a risk-based review of all certifications made 
        under subsection (b) each year; and
            (2) provide an annual report to the appropriate 
        congressional committees that details the findings of each 
        review conducted under paragraph (1).
    (d) Monthly Report.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
submit a monthly report to the appropriate congressional committees 
that--
            (1) describes the total number of applications for 
        admission with regard to which a certification under subsection 
        (b) was made and the number of covered aliens with regard to 
        whom such a certification was not made for the month preceding 
        the date of the report; and
            (2) includes, for each covered alien with regard to whom a 
        certification was not made, the concurrence or nonconcurrence 
        of each person whose concurrence was required under subsection 
        (b).
                                 <all>
