[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2642 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2642

 To require air carriers to provide training to certain employees and 
                contractors to combat human trafficking.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 3, 2016

  Ms. Klobuchar (for herself and Mr. Warner) introduced the following 
 bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, 
                      Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require air carriers to provide training to certain employees and 
                contractors to combat human trafficking.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Stop Trafficking on Planes (STOP) 
Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. TRAINING TO COMBAT HUMAN TRAFFICKING FOR CERTAIN AIR CARRIER 
              EMPLOYEES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 417 of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 41725. Training to combat human trafficking
    ``(a) In General.--Each air carrier providing passenger air 
transportation shall provide flight attendants and pilots who are 
employees or contractors of the air carrier with training to combat 
human trafficking in the course of carrying out their duties as 
employees or contractors of the air carrier.
    ``(b) Elements of Training.--The training an air carrier is 
required to provide under subsection (a) to flight attendants and 
pilots shall include training with respect to--
            ``(1) common indicators of human trafficking; and
            ``(2) best practices for reporting suspected human 
        trafficking to law enforcement officers.
    ``(c) Materials.--An air carrier may provide the training required 
by subsection (a) using modules and materials developed by the 
Department of Transportation and the Department of Homeland Security, 
including the training module and associated materials of the Blue 
Lightning Initiative and modules and materials subsequently developed 
and recommended by such Departments with respect to combating human 
trafficking.
    ``(d) Interagency Coordination.--The Administrator of the Federal 
Aviation Administration shall coordinate with the Secretary of Homeland 
Security to ensure that appropriate training modules and materials are 
available for air carriers to conduct the training required by 
subsection (a).
    ``(e) Human Trafficking Defined.--In this section, the term `human 
trafficking' means one or more severe forms of trafficking in persons 
(as defined in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102)).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 417 of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 41724 the following:

``41725. Training to combat human trafficking.''.
    (c) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that includes--
            (1) an assessment of the status of compliance of air 
        carriers with section 41725 of title 49, United States Code, as 
        added by subsection (a);
            (2) an assessment of the status of the dissemination of 
        materials for the training required by such section; and
            (3) recommendations for improving the identification and 
        reporting of human trafficking by air carrier personnel while 
        protecting the civil liberties of passengers.

SEC. 3. IMMUNITY FOR REPORTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

    Section 44941 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``or terrorism, as defined by section 3077 of title 18, United 
States Code,'' and inserting ``human trafficking (as defined by section 
41725), or terrorism (as defined by section 3077 of title 18, United 
States Code)''.
                                 <all>
