[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4225 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4225

     To amend title 28 of the United States Code to authorize the 
  appointment of additional bankruptcy judges; and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 10, 2015

   Mr. Conyers (for himself, Mr. Nadler, and Mr. Johnson of Georgia) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                             the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To amend title 28 of the United States Code to authorize the 
  appointment of additional bankruptcy judges; and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Bankruptcy Judgeship Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. CONVERSION OF THE TEMPORARY OFFICE OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGE TO THE 
              PERMANENT OFFICE OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGE IN CERTAIN JUDICIAL 
              DISTRICTS.

    (a) District of Delaware.--
            (1) The temporary office of 4 bankruptcy judges authorized 
        for the district of Delaware by section 1223(b)(1)(C) of Public 
        Law 109-8 (119 Stat. 196; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by 
        section 2(a)(1)(C) of Public Law 112-121 (126 Stat. 346; 28 
        U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent office 
        of bankruptcy judge and represented in the amendment made by 
        section 3(1) of this Act.
            (2) The temporary office of bankruptcy judge authorized for 
        the district of Delaware by section 3(a)(3) of Public Law 102-
        361 (106 Stat. 966; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by 
        section 1223(c)(1) of Public Law 109-8 (119 Stat. 198; 28 
        U.S.C. 152 note) and section 2(b)(1) of Public Law 112-121 (126 
        Stat. 347; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the 
        permanent office of bankruptcy judge and represented in the 
        amendment made by section 3(1) of this Act.
    (b) Southern District of Florida.--The temporary office of 2 
bankruptcy judges authorized for the southern district of Florida by 
section 1223(b)(1)(D) of Public law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 
note), and extended by section 2(a)(1)(D) of Public Law 112-121 (126 
Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent 
offices of bankruptcy judges and represented in the amendment made by 
section 3(3) of this Act.
    (c) District of Maryland.--The temporary office of the 2 bankruptcy 
judges first appointed as authorized for the district of Maryland by 
section 1223(b)(1)(F) of Public Law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 
note), and extended by section 2(a)(1)(F) of Public Law 112-121 (126 
Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent 
office of bankruptcy judge and represented in the amendment made by 
section 3(4) of this Act.
    (d) Eastern District of Michigan.--The temporary office of 
bankruptcy judge authorized for the eastern district of Michigan by 
section 1223(b)(l)(G) of Public law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 
note), and extended by section 2(a)(1)(G) of Public Law 112-121 (126 
Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent 
office of bankruptcy judge and represented in the amendment made by 
section 3(5) of this Act.
    (e) District of Nevada.--The temporary office of bankruptcy judge 
authorized for the district of Nevada by section 1223(b)(1)(T) of 
Public law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by 
section 2(a)(1)(Q) of Public Law 112-121 (126 Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 152 
note), is converted hereby to the permanent office of bankruptcy judge 
and represented in the amendment made by section 3(6) of this Act.
    (f) Eastern District of North Carolina.--The temporary office of 
bankruptcy judge authorized for the eastern district of North Carolina 
by section 1223(b)(1)(M) of Public law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 
152 note), and extended by section 2(a)(1)(J) of Public Law 112-121 
(126 Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the 
permanent office of bankruptcy judge and represented in the amendment 
made by section 3(7) of this Act.
    (g) District of Puerto Rico.--
            (1) The temporary office of bankruptcy judge authorized for 
        the district of Puerto Rico by section 1223(b)(1)(P) of Public 
        law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by 
        section 2(a)(1)(M) of Public Law 112-121 (126 Stat. 346; 28 
        U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent office 
        of bankruptcy judge and represented in the amendment made by 
        section 3(8) of this Act.
            (2) The temporary office of bankruptcy judge authorized for 
        the district of Puerto Rico by section 3(a)(7) of Public Law 
        102-361 (106 Stat. 966; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), and extended by 
        section 1223(c)(1) of Public Law 109-8 (119 Stat. 198; 28 
        U.S.C. 152 note) and section 2(b)(1) of Public Law 112-121 (126 
        Stat. 347; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the 
        permanent office of bankruptcy judge and is represented in the 
        amendment made by section 3(8) of this Act.
    (h) Western District of Tennessee.--The temporary office of 
bankruptcy judge authorized for the western district of Tennessee by 
section 1223(b)(1)(Q) of Public law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 
note), and extended by section 2(a)(1)(O) of Public Law 112-121 (126 
Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent 
office of bankruptcy judge and is represented in the amendment made by 
section 3(9) of this Act.
    (i) Eastern District of Virginia.--The temporary office of 
bankruptcy judge authorized for the eastern district of Virginia by 
section 1223(b)(1)(R) of Public law 109-8 (119 Stat. 197; 28 U.S.C. 152 
note), and extended by section 2(a)(1)(P) of Public Law 112-121 (126 
Stat. 346; 28 U.S.C. 152 note), is converted hereby to the permanent 
office of bankruptcy judge and is represented in the amendment made by 
section 3(10) of this Act.

SEC. 3. PERMANENT OFFICE OF BANKRUPTCY JUDGE AUTHORIZED.

    To reflect the conversion of the temporary office of bankruptcy 
judge to the permanent office of bankruptcy judge made by the operation 
of section 2, and to authorize the appointment of additional bankruptcy 
judges, section 152(a)(2) of title 28 of the United States Code is 
amended--
            (1) in the item relating to the district of Delaware by 
        striking ``1'' and inserting ``8'',
            (2) in the item relating to the middle district of Florida 
        by striking ``8'' and inserting ``10'',
            (3) in the item relating to the southern district of 
        Florida by striking ``5'' and inserting ``7'',
            (4) in the item relating to the district of Maryland by 
        striking ``4'' and inserting ``6'',
            (5) in the item relating to the eastern district of 
        Michigan by striking ``4'' and inserting ``7'',
            (6) in the item relating to the district of Nevada by 
        striking ``3'' and inserting ``4'',
            (7) in the item relating to the eastern district of North 
        Carolina by striking ``2'' and inserting ``3'',
            (8) in the item relating to the district of Puerto Rico by 
        striking ``2'' and inserting ``4'',
            (9) in the item relating to the western district of 
        Tennessee by striking ``4'' and inserting ``5'', and
            (10) in the item relating to the eastern district of 
        Virginia by striking ``5'' and inserting ``6''.
                                 <all>
