[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 688 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 108
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 688

                          [Report No. 114-503]

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4890) to impose a ban on 
  the payment of bonuses to employees of the Internal Revenue Service 
     until the Secretary of the Treasury develops and implements a 
      comprehensive customer service strategy, and providing for 
  consideration of the bill (H.R. 3724) to amend the Internal Revenue 
   Code of 1986 to prohibit the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue 
Service from rehiring any employee of the Internal Revenue Service who 
        was involuntarily separated from service for misconduct.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 18, 2016

   Mr. Collins of Georgia, from the Committee on Rules, reported the 
  following resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and 
                         ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4890) to impose a ban on 
  the payment of bonuses to employees of the Internal Revenue Service 
     until the Secretary of the Treasury develops and implements a 
      comprehensive customer service strategy, and providing for 
  consideration of the bill (H.R. 3724) to amend the Internal Revenue 
   Code of 1986 to prohibit the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue 
Service from rehiring any employee of the Internal Revenue Service who 
        was involuntarily separated from service for misconduct.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4890) to impose a ban on the 
payment of bonuses to employees of the Internal Revenue Service until 
the Secretary of the Treasury develops and implements a comprehensive 
customer service strategy. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means. After general 
debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the bill, 
it shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of 
amendment under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-49. That 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. 
All points of order against that amendment in the nature of a 
substitute are waived. No amendment to that amendment in the nature of 
a substitute shall be in order except those printed in the report of 
the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may 
be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the 
report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the 
conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee 
shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may 
have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House 
on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or 
to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as 
original text. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3724) to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to prohibit the Commissioner of the Internal 
Revenue Service from rehiring any employee of the Internal Revenue 
Service who was involuntarily separated from service for misconduct. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In 
lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the bill, an amendment in 
the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee 
Print 114-48 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further 
amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: 
(1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one 
motion to recommit with or without instructions.
                                                 House Calendar No. 108

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 688

                          [Report No. 114-503]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4890) to impose a ban on 
  the payment of bonuses to employees of the Internal Revenue Service 
     until the Secretary of the Treasury develops and implements a 
      comprehensive customer service strategy, and providing for 
  consideration of the bill (H.R. 3724) to amend the Internal Revenue 
   Code of 1986 to prohibit the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue 
Service from rehiring any employee of the Internal Revenue Service who 
        was involuntarily separated from service for misconduct.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 18, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
