[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 421 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 59
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 421

                          [Report No. 114-262]

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3134) to provide for a 
   moratorium on Federal funding to Planned Parenthood Federation of 
 America, Inc.; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3504) to 
     amend title 18, United States Code, to prohibit a health care 
practitioner from failing to exercise the proper degree of care in the 
case of a child who survives an abortion or attempted abortion; and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 16, 2015

     Ms. Foxx, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3134) to provide for a 
   moratorium on Federal funding to Planned Parenthood Federation of 
 America, Inc.; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3504) to 
     amend title 18, United States Code, to prohibit a health care 
practitioner from failing to exercise the proper degree of care in the 
case of a child who survives an abortion or attempted abortion; and for 
                            other purposes.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3134) to provide for a 
moratorium on Federal funding to Planned Parenthood Federation of 
America, Inc. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any 
further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit 
with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3504) to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to prohibit a health care practitioner from failing to 
exercise the proper degree of care in the case of a child who survives 
an abortion or attempted abortion. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or 
their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon passage of H.R. 3134 the House shall be considered to 
have: (1) stricken all after the enacting clause of S. 764 and inserted 
in lieu thereof the provisions of H.R. 3134, as passed by the House; 
and (2) passed the Senate bill as so amended.
    Sec. 4.  Upon passage of H.R. 3504 the House shall be considered to 
have: (1) stricken all after the enacting clause of S. 1603 and 
inserted in lieu thereof the provisions of H.R. 3504, as passed by the 
House; and (2) passed the Senate bill as so amended.
    Sec. 5.  House Resolution 408 is laid on the table.
                                                  House Calendar No. 59

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 421

                          [Report No. 114-262]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3134) to provide for a 
   moratorium on Federal funding to Planned Parenthood Federation of 
 America, Inc.; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3504) to 
     amend title 18, United States Code, to prohibit a health care 
practitioner from failing to exercise the proper degree of care in the 
case of a child who survives an abortion or attempted abortion; and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 16, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
