[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3691 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

<DOC>
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3691


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 12, 2016

     Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, 
                     Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize the residential 
treatment programs for pregnant and postpartum women and to establish a 
 pilot program to provide grants to State substance abuse agencies to 
       promote innovative service delivery models for such women.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Improving Treatment for Pregnant and 
Postpartum Women Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT PROGRAMS FOR PREGNANT 
              AND POSTPARTUM WOMEN.

    Section 508 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-1) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (p), in the first sentence, by inserting 
        ``(other than subsection (r))'' after ``section''; and
            (2) in subsection (r), by striking ``such sums'' and all 
        that follows through ``2003'' and inserting ``$16,900,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021''.

SEC. 3. PILOT PROGRAM GRANTS FOR STATE SUBSTANCE ABUSE AGENCIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 508 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 290bb-1) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (r), as amended by section 
        2, as subsection (s); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (q) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(r) Pilot Program for State Substance Abuse Agencies.--
            ``(1) In general.--From amounts made available under 
        subsection (s), the Director of the Center for Substance Abuse 
        Treatment shall carry out a pilot program under which 
        competitive grants are made by the Director to State substance 
        abuse agencies to--
                    ``(A) enhance flexibility in the use of funds 
                designed to support family-based services for pregnant 
                and postpartum women with a primary diagnosis of a 
                substance use disorder, including opioid use disorders;
                    ``(B) help State substance abuse agencies address 
                identified gaps in services furnished to such women 
                along the continuum of care, including services 
                provided to women in nonresidential based settings; and
                    ``(C) promote a coordinated, effective, and 
                efficient State system managed by State substance abuse 
                agencies by encouraging new approaches and models of 
                service delivery.
            ``(2) Requirements.--In carrying out the pilot program 
        under this subsection, the Director shall--
                    ``(A) require State substance abuse agencies to 
                submit to the Director applications, in such form and 
                manner and containing such information as specified by 
                the Director, to be eligible to receive a grant under 
                the program;
                    ``(B) identify, based on such submitted 
                applications, State substance abuse agencies that are 
                eligible for such grants;
                    ``(C) require services proposed to be furnished 
                through such a grant to support family-based treatment 
                and other services for pregnant and postpartum women 
                with a primary diagnosis of a substance use disorder, 
                including opioid use disorders;
                    ``(D) not require that services furnished through 
                such a grant be provided solely to women that reside in 
                facilities;
                    ``(E) not require that grant recipients under the 
                program make available through use of the grant all 
                services described in subsection (d); and
                    ``(F) consider not applying requirements described 
                in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (f) to 
                applicants, depending on the circumstances of the 
                applicant.
            ``(3) Required services.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Director shall specify a 
                minimum set of services required to be made available 
                to eligible women through a grant awarded under the 
                pilot program under this subsection. Such minimum set--
                            ``(i) shall include requirements described 
                        in subsection (c) and be based on the 
                        recommendations submitted under subparagraph 
                        (B); and
                            ``(ii) may be selected from among the 
                        services described in subsection (d) and 
                        include other services as appropriate.
                    ``(B) Stakeholder input.--The Director shall 
                convene and solicit recommendations from stakeholders, 
                including State substance abuse agencies, health care 
                providers, persons in recovery from substance abuse, 
                and other appropriate individuals, for the minimum set 
                of services described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(4) Duration.--The pilot program under this subsection 
        shall not exceed 5 years.
            ``(5) Evaluation and report to congress.--The Director of 
        the Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality shall 
        fund an evaluation of the pilot program at the conclusion of 
        the first grant cycle funded by the pilot program. The Director 
        of the Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality, in 
        coordination with the Director of the Center for Substance 
        Abuse Treatment shall submit to the relevant committees of 
        jurisdiction of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
        report on such evaluation. The report shall include at a 
        minimum outcomes information from the pilot program, including 
        any resulting reductions in the use of alcohol and other drugs; 
        engagement in treatment services; retention in the appropriate 
        level and duration of services; increased access to the use of 
        medications approved by the Food and Drug Administration for 
        the treatment of substance use disorders in combination with 
        counseling; and other appropriate measures.
            ``(6) State substance abuse agencies defined.--For purposes 
        of this subsection, the term `State substance abuse agency' 
        means, with respect to a State, the agency in such State that 
        manages the Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block 
        Grant under part B of title XIX.''.
    (b) Funding.--Subsection (s) of section 508 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-1), as amended by section 2 and 
redesignated by subsection (a), is further amended by adding at the end 
the following new sentence: ``Of the amounts made available for a year 
pursuant to the previous sentence to carry out this section, not more 
than 25 percent of such amounts shall be made available for such year 
to carry out subsection (r), other than paragraph (5) of such 
subsection. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, no funds shall be 
made available to carry out subsection (r) for a fiscal year unless the 
amount made available to carry out this section for such fiscal year is 
more than the amount made available to carry out this section for 
fiscal year 2016.''.

SEC. 4. CUT-GO COMPLIANCE.

    Subsection (f) of section 319D of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 247d-4) is amended by striking ``through 2018'' and inserting 
``through 2016, $133,300,000 for fiscal year 2017, and $138,300,000 for 
fiscal year 2018''.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 11, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
