[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3162 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3162

To provide for the consideration of energy storage systems by electric 
  utilities as part of a supply side resource process, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 12, 2016

 Mr. Reed (for himself and Mr. Heller) introduced the following bill; 
   which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the consideration of energy storage systems by electric 
  utilities as part of a supply side resource process, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Storage Technology for Operational 
Readiness and Generating Energy Act'' or the ``S.T.O.R.A.G.E. Act''.

SEC. 2. CONSIDERATION OF ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 111(d) of the Public Utility Regulatory 
Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2621(d)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
            ``(20) Consideration of energy storage systems.--Each State 
        shall consider requiring that, as part of a supply side 
        resource planning process, an electric utility of the State 
        demonstrate to the State that the electric utility considered 
        an investment in energy storage systems based on appropriate 
        factors, including--
                    ``(A) total costs and normalized life cycle costs;
                    ``(B) cost effectiveness;
                    ``(C) improved reliability;
                    ``(D) security; and
                    ``(E) system performance and efficiency.''.
    (b) Time Limitations.--Section 112(b) of the Public Utility 
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2622(b)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(7)(A) Not later than 1 year after enactment of this 
        paragraph, each State regulatory authority (with respect to 
        each electric utility for which the State regulatory authority 
        has ratemaking authority) and each nonregulated utility shall 
        commence the consideration referred to in section 111, or set a 
        hearing date for consideration, with respect to the standard 
        established by paragraph (20) of section 111(d).
            ``(B) Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this paragraph, each State regulatory authority (with respect 
        to each electric utility for which the State regulatory 
        authority has ratemaking authority), and each nonregulated 
        electric utility, shall complete the consideration, and shall 
        make the determination, referred to in section 111 with respect 
        to the standard established by paragraph (20) of section 
        111(d).''.
    (c) Failure To Comply.--Section 112(c) of the Public Utility 
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2622(c)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: ``In the case of the standard 
established by paragraph (20) of section 111(d), the reference 
contained in this subsection to the date of enactment of this Act shall 
be deemed to be a reference to the date of enactment of that 
paragraph.''.
    (d) Prior State Actions.--Section 112(d) of the Public Utility 
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2622(d)) is amended in the 
matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking ``(19)'' and inserting 
``(20)''.

SEC. 3. COORDINATION OF PROGRAMS.

    To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary of Energy shall 
ensure that the funding and administration of the different offices 
within the Grid Modernization Initiative of the Department of Energy 
and other programs conducting energy storage research are coordinated 
and streamlined.
                                 <all>
