[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5911 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5911

 To require the Secretary of Homeland Security and Attorney General to 
submit a report on the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 14, 2016

Mr. Young of Indiana (for himself, Mr. Delaney, and Mr. Heck of Nevada) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
 Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of 
                        the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the Secretary of Homeland Security and Attorney General to 
submit a report on the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Countering Violent Extremism Task 
Force Oversight Act''.

SEC. 2. REPORT ON COUNTERING VIOLENT EXTREMISM TASK FORCE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security and the Attorney General shall jointly submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report on the Countering Violent 
Extremism Task Force.
    (b) Contents.--Each report required under subsection (a) shall 
include an examination of the following:
            (1) How the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force plans 
        and coordinates countering violent extremism programs of the 
        Federal Government.
            (2) How the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force 
        evaluates the effectiveness of countering violent extremism 
        programs of the Federal Government.
            (3) How the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force plans 
        and coordinates Federal programs to combat violent extremism 
        that specifically address and counter the threat of 
        radicalization of United States citizens or lawful permanent 
        residents by foreign terrorists or foreign terrorist 
        organizations (designated pursuant to section 219 of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189)) through the 
        Internet, social media, or other platforms.
            (4) How the Countering Violent Extremism Task Force plans 
        and coordinates countering violent extremism programs of the 
        Federal Government that specifically address and counter the 
        threat of ``lone wolf'' acts of terrorism conducted by United 
        States citizens or lawful permanent residents who have been 
        radicalized.
            (5) The levels of funding, personnel, and department or 
        agency resources that are devoted to the Countering Violent 
        Extremism Task Force.
            (6) Problems and difficulties associated with the 
        development, implementation, and coordination of countering 
        violent extremism programs of the Federal Government.
            (7) A comparison of the Countering Violent Extremism Task 
        Force with similar organizations and programs employed by 
        United States allies and partners.
            (8) Proposed policy recommendations for developing 
        coordinated, coherent, cohesive whole-government countering 
        violent extremism programs of the Federal Government.
    (c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex if 
the Secretary of Homeland Security and Attorney General determine that 
such is appropriate.
    (d) Classified Briefings.--The Secretary of Homeland Security and 
the Attorney General may provide to the appropriate congressional 
committees classified briefings on the contents of the report required 
under subsection (a).
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) in the House of Representatives--
                    (A) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence;
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs;
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security; and
                    (D) the Committee on the Judiciary; and
            (2) in the Senate--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence;
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations;
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs; and
                    (D) the Committee on the Judiciary.
                                 <all>
