[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 770 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 770

To authorize Escambia County, Florida, to convey certain property that 
 was formerly part of Santa Rosa Island National Monument and that was 
    conveyed to Escambia County subject to restrictions on use and 
                             reconveyance.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 18, 2015

   Mr. Rubio introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize Escambia County, Florida, to convey certain property that 
 was formerly part of Santa Rosa Island National Monument and that was 
    conveyed to Escambia County subject to restrictions on use and 
                             reconveyance.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Escambia County Land Conveyance 
Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Escambia County, 
        Florida.
            (2) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the former Santa Rosa Island National Monument land in the 
        State of Florida that was conveyed by the United States to the 
        County under the Act of July 30, 1946 (60 Stat. 712, chapter 
        699), and by deed dated January 15, 1947.

SEC. 3. RECONVEYANCE OF NON-FEDERAL LAND.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the restrictions on conveyance in 
the Act of July 30, 1946 (60 Stat. 712, chapter 699) and the deed to 
the non-Federal land from the United States to the County dated January 
15, 1947, and subject to subsection (c), the County may convey all 
right, title, and interest of the County in and to the non-Federal land 
or any portion of the non-Federal land, to any person or entity, 
without any restriction on conveyance or reconveyance imposed by the 
United States in that Act or deed.
    (b) Effect on Leasehold Interests.--No person or entity holding a 
leasehold interest in the non-Federal as of the date of enactment of 
this Act shall be required to involuntarily accept a fee interest to 
the non-Federal land in place of the leasehold interest.
    (c) Land Within Santa Rosa County.--
            (1) In general.--The County may convey to Santa Rosa 
        County, Florida, all right, title, and interest of the County 
        in and to any portion of the non-Federal land that is within 
        the jurisdictional boundaries of Santa Rosa County.
            (2) Requirements.--A conveyance under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) be absolute;
                    (B) terminate--
                            (i) any subjugation of Santa Rosa County to 
                        the County; or
                            (ii) any regulation of Santa Rosa County by 
                        the County; and
                    (C) be without consideration, except that the 
                County may require Santa Rosa County, Florida, to pay 
                the actual costs associated with the conveyance of the 
                non-Federal land.
            (3) Reconveyance.--Santa Rosa County, Florida, or any other 
        person to whom Santa Rosa County, Florida, reconveys the non-
        Federal land may reconvey the non-Federal land or any portion 
        of the non-Federal land conveyed to Santa Rosa County, Florida, 
        under paragraph (1).
            (4) Incorporation or annexation.--The owners or 
        leaseholders of non-Federal land conveyed under this subsection 
        may pursue incorporation, annexation, or any other governmental 
        status for the non-Federal land, if the owners or leaseholders 
        comply with the legal conditions required for incorporation, 
        annexation, or the other governmental status.
            (5) Intent of congress.--It is the intent of Congress that 
        the conveyance under paragraph (1) shall be completed by the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (d) Jurisdiction.--The non-Federal land conveyed under this section 
shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the county or unit of local 
government in which the non-Federal land is located.
    (e) Proceeds.--Any proceeds from the conveyance of non-Federal land 
by the County or Santa Rosa County, Florida (other than amounts paid 
for the direct and incidental costs associated with the conveyance) 
under this section shall--
            (1) be considered windfall profits; and
            (2) revert to the United States.
    (f) Preservation.--The County and Santa Rosa County, Florida, shall 
preserve the areas of the non-Federal land conveyed under this section 
that, as of the date of enactment of this Act, are dedicated for 
conservation, preservation, public recreation access, and public 
parking, in accordance with resolutions adopted by the Board of County 
Commissioners of the County or Santa Rosa County, Florida, 
respectively.
    (g) Authority of Counties.--The County and Santa Rosa County, 
Florida--
            (1) shall not be subject to a deadline or requirement to 
        make any conveyance or reconveyance of the non-Federal land 
        authorized under this section; and
            (2) may establish terms for the conveyance or reconveyance 
        of the non-Federal land authorized under this section, subject 
        to this Act and applicable State law.
                                 <all>
