[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 609 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                  House Calendar No. 89
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 609

                          [Report No. 114-420]

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3442) to provide further 
 means of accountability of the United States debt and promote fiscal 
responsibility, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3293) 
to provide for greater accountability in Federal funding for scientific 
research, to promote the progress of science in the United States that 
                     serves that national interest.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 9, 2016

   Mr. Sessions, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3442) to provide further 
 means of accountability of the United States debt and promote fiscal 
responsibility, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3293) 
to provide for greater accountability in Federal funding for scientific 
research, to promote the progress of science in the United States that 
                     serves that national interest.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3442) to provide further 
means of accountability of the United States debt and promote fiscal 
responsibility. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. 
General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Ways and Means. After general debate the 
bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The 
bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill are waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in 
order except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee on 
Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered 
only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved 
into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3293) to provide for greater 
accountability in Federal funding for scientific research, to promote 
the progress of science in the United States that serves that national 
interest. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General 
debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. After general 
debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill are waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in 
order except those printed in part B of the report of the Committee on 
Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered 
only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
                                                  House Calendar No. 89

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 609

                          [Report No. 114-420]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3442) to provide further 
 means of accountability of the United States debt and promote fiscal 
responsibility, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3293) 
to provide for greater accountability in Federal funding for scientific 
research, to promote the progress of science in the United States that 
                     serves that national interest.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            February 9, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
