[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5642 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5642

 To provide adequate resources for the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
                and the VALOR Officer Safety Initiative.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              July 6, 2016

Ms. Duckworth introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide adequate resources for the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
                and the VALOR Officer Safety Initiative.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Counterterrorism Enhancement Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. DOMESTIC TERROR PREVENTION.

    (a) FBI Funding.--For fiscal year 2017, an additional $175,000,000 
are authorized to be appropriated to the Attorney General for 
personnel, training, and equipment by the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation needed to counter both terrorism, including domestic and 
foreign threats.
    (b) VALOR Initiative.--For fiscal year 2017, an additional 
$15,000,000 are authorized to be appropriated to the Attorney General 
for an Officer Robert Wilson III memorial initiative to be administered 
by the Bureau of Justice Programs on Preventing Violence Against Law 
Enforcement Officer Resilience and Survivability (VALOR).
    (c) Civil Rights Division.--For fiscal year 2017, an additional 
$30,000,000 are authorized to be appropriated to the Attorney General 
for the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice.
    (d) Community Relations Service.--For fiscal year 2017, an 
additional $11,000,000 are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Attorney General for personnel and training to respond to hate crimes 
by the Community Relations Service of the Department of Justice.
    (e) Firearms Trafficking.--Section 924 of title 18, United States 
Code, is amended by striking subsection (h) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(h) Whoever knowingly transfers or receives a firearm, knowing or 
having reasonable cause to believe that such firearm will be used to 
commit a Federal crime of terrorism (as defined in section 
2332b(g)(5)), a crime of violence (as defined in subsection (c)(3)), or 
a drug trafficking crime (as defined in subsection (c)(2)) shall be 
imprisoned not more than 15 years, fined in accordance with this title, 
or both.''.
                                 <all>
