[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3137 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3137

  To reaffirm the trust status of land taken into trust by the United 
  States pursuant to the Act of June 18, 1934, for the benefit of an 
 Indian tribe that was federally recognized on the date that the land 
             was taken into trust, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 21, 2015

    Mr. Cole (for himself, Ms. McCollum, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. 
Sessions, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
   Gallego, Mr. Murphy of Florida, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New 
Mexico, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Moore, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Takai, Mr. Benishek, Mr. 
  Mullin, Mr. Kilmer, and Mr. Simpson) introduced the following bill; 
        which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To reaffirm the trust status of land taken into trust by the United 
  States pursuant to the Act of June 18, 1934, for the benefit of an 
 Indian tribe that was federally recognized on the date that the land 
             was taken into trust, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REAFFIRMATION OF STATUS AND ACTIONS.

    (a) Reaffirmation of Trust Status.--Land taken into trust by the 
United States pursuant to the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 465), 
before the date of enactment of this Act for the benefit of an Indian 
tribe that was federally recognized on the date that the land was taken 
into trust is reaffirmed as trust land.
    (b) Ratification of Actions of the Secretary.--Any action taken by 
the Secretary of the Interior for the purpose of acquiring and taking 
land into trust under the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 465), is 
hereby ratified and confirmed as fully and for all intents and purposes 
as if that action had been taken under a Federal law specifically 
authorizing or directing that action.
    (c) Application.--This Act shall apply to all claims (including 
claims challenging the validity of title or the effectiveness of any 
action of the Secretary acquiring and taking land into trust) pending 
on the date of the enactment of this Act or filed on or after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Indian Country.--Any land taken into trust that has been 
ratified and confirmed pursuant to this Act shall remain Indian country 
pursuant to section 1151 of title 18, United States Code.
    (e) Additional Land.--Nothing in this Act shall alter or diminish 
the right of any federally recognized Indian tribe or the authority of 
the Secretary with respect to land taken into trust after the date of 
the enactment of this Act for the benefit of a federally recognized 
Indian tribe.
                                 <all>
