[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5338 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5338

  To reduce passenger wait times at airports, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 26, 2016

Mr. Katko (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Keating, Mr. King of New York, 
  Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Donovan, Ms. McSally, Mr. Marchant, Mr. 
Joyce, and Mr. Dold) introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                 to the Committee on Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To reduce passenger wait times at airports, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Checkpoint Optimization and 
Efficiency Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that airport checkpoint wait times 
should not take priority over the security of passengers.

SEC. 3. ENHANCED STAFFING ALLOCATION MODEL.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration shall complete an assessment of the Administration's 
staffing allocation model to determine the necessary staffing positions 
at all airports in the United States at which the Administration 
operates passenger checkpoints.
    (b) Appropriate Staffing.--The staffing allocation model described 
in subsection (a) shall be based on necessary staffing levels to 
maintain minimal passenger wait times.
    (c) Additional Resources.--In assessing necessary staffing for 
minimal passenger wait times referred to in subsection (b), the 
Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall 
include the use of canine explosives detection teams and technology to 
assist screeners conducting security checks.
    (d) Transparency.--The Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration shall share with air carriers and airport operators the 
staffing allocation model described in subsection (a).
    (e) GAO Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall review the staffing allocation model described in subsection (a) 
and report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate on the results of such review.

SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE UTILIZATION OF STAFFING RESOURCES.

    (a) In General.--To the greatest extent practicable, the 
Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration shall 
direct that Transportation Security Officers are assigned to passenger 
and baggage security screening functions and that other Administration 
and other appropriate personnel are utilized for tasks not directly 
related to security screening, including restocking bins and providing 
instructions and support to passengers in security lines.
    (b) Assessment and Reassignment.--The Administrator of the 
Transportation Security Administration shall conduct an assessment of 
headquarters personnel and reassign appropriate personnel to assist 
with airport security screening activities on a permanent or temporary 
basis.

SEC. 5. TSA STAFFING AND RESOURCE ALLOCATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration shall take the following actions:
            (1) Utilize the Administration's Behavior Detection 
        Officers to verify traveler documents, particularly at 
        designated PreCheck lanes to ensure that such lanes are 
        operational for use and maximum efficiency.
            (2) Make every practicable effort to grant additional 
        flexibility and authority to Federal Security Directors in 
        matters related to checkpoint and checked baggage staffing 
        allocation and employee overtime.
            (3) Disseminate to air carriers, airport operators, and 
        appropriate Administration personnel a list of checkpoint 
        optimization best practices.
            (4) Expand efforts to increase the public's participation 
        in the Administration's PreCheck program, including deploying 
        Administration-approved ready-to-market private sector 
        solutions and offering secure online and mobile enrollment 
        opportunities.
            (5) Direct the Aviation Security Advisory Committee 
        (established pursuant to section 44946 of title 49, United 
        States Code) to provide recommendations within 60 days on 
        checkpoint operations optimization.
    (b) Staffing Advisory Coordination.--Not later than 30 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the 
Transportation Security Administration shall--
            (1) in coordination with local representatives from 
        airports and air carriers, establish a staffing advisory 
        working group at each airport at which the Administration 
        oversees or performs passenger security screening to coordinate 
        a service level agreement and minimum Administration staffing 
        numbers to be provided to each such airport;
            (2) in coordination with representatives from airports and 
        air carriers, establish a staffing advisory committee at the 
        national level to coordinate and share information relating to 
        best practices concerning Administration staffing numbers being 
        provided to airports; and
            (3) certify to the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
        House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate that such staffing 
        advisory committees have been established.
    (c) Reporting.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration shall--
            (1) report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
        House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate regarding how the 
        Administration's Passenger Screening Canine assets may be 
        deployed and utilized for maximum efficiency to mitigate risk 
        and optimize checkpoint operations; and
            (2) report to the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
        House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate on the status of the 
        Administration's Credential Authentication Technology 
        Assessment program and how deployment of such program might 
        optimize checkpoint operations.

SEC. 6. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this Act may be construed as authorizing or directing 
the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration to 
prioritize reducing wait times over security effectiveness.
                                 <all>
