[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5268 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5268

To provide for improvements to the Welcome to Medicare package, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 17, 2016

Mr. McDermott introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on Energy 
    and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for improvements to the Welcome to Medicare package, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Medicare Beneficiary Enrollment 
Improvement Act''.

SEC. 2. UPDATING THE WELCOME TO MEDICARE PACKAGE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 12 months after the last day of the 
period for the request of information described in subsection (b) the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, taking into consideration 
information collected pursuant to subsection (b), update the 
information included in the Welcome to Medicare package to include 
information, presented in a clear and simple manner, about options for 
receiving benefits under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.), including through the 
original medicare fee-for-service program under parts A and B of such 
title (42 U.S.C. 1395c et seq., 42 U.S.C. 1395j et seq.), Medicare 
Advantage plans under part C of such title (42 U.S.C. 1395w-21 et 
seq.), and prescription drug plans under part D of such title (42 
U.S.C. 1395w-101 et seq.). The Secretary shall make subsequent updates 
to the information included in the Welcome to Medicare package as 
appropriate.
    (b) Request for Information.--Not later than six months after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall request information, including recommendations, from 
stakeholders (including patient advocates, issuers, and employers) on 
information included in the Welcome to Medicare package, including 
pertinent data and information regarding enrollment and coverage for 
Medicare eligible individuals.
                                 <all>
