[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2360 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2360

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To improve the administration of certain programs in the insular areas, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Omnibus Territories Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. RESETTLEMENT AND RELOCATION FOR THE PEOPLE OF BIKINI.

    The matter under the heading ``trust territory of the pacific 
islands'' under the heading ``Office of Territorial Affairs'' under the 
heading ``DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR'' in chapter VIII of title I of 
the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1982 (Public Law 97-257; 96 Stat. 
840), is amended by striking the first proviso and inserting 
``Provided, That such funds, including funds provided pursuant to the 
Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1989 (Public Law 100-446; 102 Stat. 1774), shall be available for the 
relocation and resettlement of the Bikini people living on Kili and 
Ejit Islands, on the condition that the Secretary of the Interior 
submits to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
a resettlement plan developed in coordination with the Bikini Atoll 
leadership: Provided further, That for any fiscal year, annual 
expenditures from the Resettlement Fund established by this section and 
pursuant to the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1989 (Public Law 100-446; 102 Stat. 1774) may not 
exceed an amount that is greater than 90 percent of the average annual 
earnings of the Fund for the preceding 5 years unless for resettlement 
purposes outside of the Marshall Islands:''.

SEC. 3. RELIABLE AIR SERVICE IN AMERICAN SAMOA.

    Section 40109(g) of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph (C) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(C) review the exemption at least every 30 days 
                (or, in the case of exemptions that are necessary to 
                provide and sustain air transportation in American 
                Samoa between the islands of Tutuila and Manu'a, at 
                least every 180 days), to ensure that the unusual 
                circumstances that established the need for the 
                exemption still exist.''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Renewal of exemptions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the Secretary may renew an exemption 
                (including renewals) under this subsection for not more 
                than 30 days.
                    ``(B) Exception.--An exemption that is necessary to 
                provide and sustain air transportation in American 
                Samoa between the islands of Tutuila and Manu'a, may be 
                renewed for not more than 180 days.
            ``(4) Continuation of exemptions.--An exemption may 
        continue for not more than 5 days after the unusual 
        circumstances that established the need for the exemption 
        cease.''.

SEC. 4. DRIVERS' LICENSES AND PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION CARDS.

    (a) Definition of State.--Section 201(5) of the REAL ID Act of 2005 
(49 U.S.C. 30301 note; Public Law 109-13) is amended by striking ``the 
Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,''.
    (b) Evidence of Lawful Status.--Section 202(c)(2)(B) of the REAL ID 
Act of 2005 (49 U.S.C. 30301 note; Public Law 109-13) is amended--
            (1) in clause (viii), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (ix), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(x) is a citizen of the Republic of the 
                        Marshall Islands, the Federated States of 
                        Micronesia, or the Republic of Palau who has 
                        been admitted to the United States as a 
                        nonimmigrant pursuant to a Compact of Free 
                        Association between the United States and the 
                        Republic or Federated States.''.

            Passed the Senate September 29, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2360

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To improve the administration of certain programs in the insular areas, 
                        and for other purposes.
