[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3021 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3021

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the use of Post-9/
   11 Educational Assistance to pursue independent study programs at 
 certain educational institutions that are not institutions of higher 
                               learning.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans Education Improvement Act 
of 2016'' or the ``VEI Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE TO 
              PURSUE INDEPENDENT STUDY PROGRAMS AT CERTAIN EDUCATIONAL 
              INSTITUTIONS THAT ARE NOT INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER 
              LEARNING.

    Paragraph (4) of section 3680A(a) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) any independent study program except--
                    ``(A) with respect to enrollments occurring during 
                the period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
                the Veterans Education Improvement Act of 2016 and 
                ending on September 30, 2018, an independent study 
                program (including open circuit television) that--
                            ``(i) is accredited by a nationally 
                        recognized accrediting agency; and
                            ``(ii) leads--
                                    ``(I) to a standard college degree;
                                    ``(II) to a certificate that 
                                reflects educational attainment offered 
                                by an institution of higher learning; 
                                or
                                    ``(III) to a certificate that 
                                reflects completion of a course of 
                                study offered by--
                                            ``(aa) an area career and 
                                        technical education school (as 
                                        defined in subparagraphs (C) 
                                        and (D) of section 3(3) of the 
                                        Carl D. Perkins Career and 
                                        Technical Education Act of 2006 
                                        (20 U.S.C. 2302(3))) that 
                                        provides education at the 
                                        postsecondary level; or
                                            ``(bb) a postsecondary 
                                        vocational institution (as 
                                        defined in section 102(c) of 
                                        the Higher Education Act of 
                                        1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002(c))) that 
                                        provides education at the 
                                        postsecondary level; and
                    ``(B) with respect to enrollments occurring during 
                any period other than the period described in 
                subparagraph (A), an accredited independent study 
                program (including open circuit television) leading--
                            ``(i) to a standard college degree; or
                            ``(ii) to a certificate that reflects 
                        educational attainment offered by an 
                        institution of higher learning.''.

SEC. 3. APPROVAL OF COURSES OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR PURPOSES OF 
              THE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3104(b) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``A rehabilitation''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), to the maximum 
extent practicable, a course of education or training may be pursued by 
a veteran as part of a rehabilitation program under this chapter only 
if the course is approved for purposes of chapter 30 or 33 of this 
title.
    ``(B) The Secretary may waive the requirement under subparagraph 
(A) to the extent the Secretary determines appropriate.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to a course of education or training pursued by a 
veteran who first begins a program of rehabilitation under chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code, on or after the date that is one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 4. AUTHORITY TO PRIORITIZE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES 
              BASED ON NEED.

    Section 3104 of title 38, United States Code, as amended by section 
3, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c)(1) The Secretary shall have the authority to administer this 
chapter by prioritizing the provision of services under this chapter 
based on need, as determined by the Secretary.
    ``(2) In evaluating need for purposes of this subsection, the 
Secretary shall consider disability ratings, the severity of employment 
handicaps, qualification for a program of independent living services 
and assistance, income, and such other factors as the Secretary 
considers appropriate.
    ``(3) Not later than 90 days before making any changes to the 
prioritization of the provision of services under this chapter as 
authorized under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
a plan describing such changes.''.

SEC. 5. CODIFICATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF ELECTION PROCESS FOR POST-9/11 
              EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 3325 as section 3326; and
            (2) by inserting after section 3324 the following new 
        section 3325:
``Sec. 3325. Election to receive educational assistance
    ``(a) Individuals Eligible to Elect Participation in Post-9/11 
Educational Assistance.--An individual may elect to receive educational 
assistance under this chapter if such individual--
            ``(1) as of August 1, 2009--
                    ``(A) is entitled to basic educational assistance 
                under chapter 30 of this title and has used, but 
                retains unused, entitlement under that chapter;
                    ``(B) is entitled to educational assistance under 
                chapter 107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10 and has used, 
                but retains unused, entitlement under the applicable 
                chapter;
                    ``(C) is entitled to basic educational assistance 
                under chapter 30 of this title but has not used any 
                entitlement under that chapter;
                    ``(D) is entitled to educational assistance under 
                chapter 107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10 but has not used 
                any entitlement under such chapter;
                    ``(E) is a member of the Armed Forces who is 
                eligible for receipt of basic educational assistance 
                under chapter 30 of this title and is making 
                contributions toward such assistance under section 
                3011(b) or 3012(c) of this title; or
                    ``(F) is a member of the Armed Forces who is not 
                entitled to basic educational assistance under chapter 
                30 of this title by reason of an election under section 
                3011(c)(1) or 3012(d)(1) of this title; and
            ``(2) as of the date of the individual's election under 
        this paragraph, meets the requirements for entitlement to 
        educational assistance under this chapter.
    ``(b) Cessation of Contributions Toward GI Bill.--Effective as of 
the first month beginning on or after the date of an election under 
subsection (a) of an individual described by paragraph (1)(E) of that 
subsection, the obligation of the individual to make contributions 
under section 3011(b) or 3012(c) of this title, as applicable, shall 
cease, and the requirements of such section shall be deemed to be no 
longer applicable to the individual.
    ``(c) Revocation of Remaining Transferred Entitlement.--
            ``(1) Election to revoke.--If, on the date an individual 
        described in paragraph (1)(A) or (1)(C) of subsection (a) makes 
        an election under that subsection, a transfer of the 
        entitlement of the individual to basic educational assistance 
        under section 3020 of this title is in effect and a number of 
        months of the entitlement so transferred remain unutilized, the 
        individual may elect to revoke all or a portion of the 
        entitlement so transferred that remains unutilized.
            ``(2) Availability of revoked entitlement.--Any entitlement 
        revoked by an individual under this paragraph shall no longer 
        be available to the dependent to whom transferred, but shall be 
        available to the individual instead for educational assistance 
        under chapter 33 of this title in accordance with the 
        provisions of this section.
            ``(3) Availability of unrevoked entitlement.--Any 
        entitlement described in paragraph (1) that is not revoked by 
        an individual in accordance with that paragraph shall remain 
        available to the dependent or dependents concerned in 
        accordance with the current transfer of such entitlement under 
        section 3020 of this title.
    ``(d) Post-9/11 Educational Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and except as 
        provided in subsection (e), an individual making an election 
        under subsection (a) shall be entitled to educational 
        assistance under this chapter in accordance with the provisions 
        of this chapter, instead of basic educational assistance under 
        chapter 30 of this title, or educational assistance under 
        chapter 107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10, as applicable.
            ``(2) Limitation on entitlement for certain individuals.--
        In the case of an individual making an election under 
        subsection (a) who is described by paragraph (1)(A) of that 
        subsection, the number of months of entitlement of the 
        individual to educational assistance under this chapter shall 
        be the number of months equal to--
                    ``(A) the number of months of unused entitlement of 
                the individual under chapter 30 of this title, as of 
                the date of the election, plus
                    ``(B) the number of months, if any, of entitlement 
                revoked by the individual under subsection (c)(1).
    ``(e) Continuing Entitlement to Educational Assistance Not 
Available Under 9/11 Assistance Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the event educational assistance to 
        which an individual making an election under subsection (a) 
        would be entitled under chapter 30 of this title, or chapter 
        107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10, as applicable, is not 
        authorized to be available to the individual under the 
        provisions of this chapter the individual shall remain entitled 
        to such educational assistance in accordance with the 
        provisions of the applicable chapter.
            ``(2) Charge for use of entitlement.--The utilization by an 
        individual of entitlement under paragraph (1) shall be 
        chargeable against the entitlement of the individual to 
        educational assistance under this chapter at the rate of one 
        month of entitlement under this chapter for each month of 
        entitlement utilized by the individual under paragraph (1) (as 
        determined as if such entitlement were utilized under the 
        provisions of chapter 30 of this title, or chapter 107, 1606, 
        or 1607 of title 10, as applicable).
    ``(f) Additional Post-9/11 Assistance for Members Having Made 
Contributions Toward GI Bill.--
            ``(1) Additional assistance.--In the case of an individual 
        making an election under subsection (a) who is described by 
        subparagraph (A), (C), or (E) of paragraph (1) of that 
        subsection, the amount of educational assistance payable to the 
        individual under this chapter as a monthly stipend payable 
        under paragraph (1)(B) of section 3313(c) of this title, or 
        under paragraphs (2) through (7) of that section (as 
        applicable), shall be the amount otherwise payable as a monthly 
        stipend under the applicable paragraph increased by the amount 
        equal to--
                    ``(A) the total amount of contributions toward 
                basic educational assistance made by the individual 
                under section 3011(b) or 3012(c) of this title, as of 
                the date of the election, multiplied by
                    ``(B) the fraction--
                            ``(i) the numerator of which is--
                                    ``(I) the number of months of 
                                entitlement to basic educational 
                                assistance under chapter 30 of this 
                                title remaining to the individual at 
                                the time of the election; plus
                                    ``(II) the number of months, if 
                                any, of entitlement under chapter 30 
                                revoked by the individual under 
                                subsection (c)(1); and
                            ``(ii) the denominator of which is 36 
                        months.
            ``(2) Months of remaining entitlement for certain 
        individuals.--In the case of an individual covered by paragraph 
        (1) who is described by subsection (a)(1)(E), the number of 
        months of entitlement to basic educational assistance remaining 
        to the individual for purposes of paragraph (1)(B)(i)(II) shall 
        be 36 months.
            ``(3) Timing of payment.--The amount payable with respect 
        to an individual under paragraph (1) shall be paid to the 
        individual together with the last payment of the monthly 
        stipend payable to the individual under paragraph (1)(B) of 
        section 3313(c) of this title, or under paragraphs (2) through 
        (7) of that section (as applicable), before the exhaustion of 
        the individual's entitlement to educational assistance under 
        this chapter.
    ``(g) Continuing Entitlement to Additional Assistance for Critical 
Skills or Speciality and Additional Service.--An individual making an 
election under subsection (a)(1) who, at the time of the election, is 
entitled to increased educational assistance under section 3015(d) of 
this title, or section 16131(i) of title 10, or supplemental 
educational assistance under subchapter III of chapter 30 of this 
title, shall remain entitled to such increased educational assistance 
or supplemental educational assistance in the utilization of 
entitlement to educational assistance under this chapter, in an amount 
equal to the quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, equivalent of 
the monthly amount of such increased educational assistance or 
supplemental educational assistance payable with respect to the 
individual at the time of the election.
    ``(h) Alternative Election by Secretary.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of an individual who, on or 
        after January 1, 2016, submits to the Secretary an election 
        under this section that the Secretary determines is clearly 
        against the interests of the individual, or who fails to make 
        an election under this section, the Secretary may make an 
        alternative election on behalf of the individual that the 
        Secretary determines is in the best interests of the 
        individual.
            ``(2) Notice.--If the Secretary makes an election on behalf 
        of an individual under this subsection, the Secretary shall 
        notify the individual by not later than seven days after making 
        such election and shall provide the individual with a 30-day 
        period, beginning on the date of the individual's receipt of 
        such notice, during which the individual may modify or revoke 
        the election made by the Secretary on the individual's behalf. 
        The Secretary shall include, as part of such notice, a clear 
        statement of why the alternative election made by the Secretary 
        is in the best interests of the individual as compared to the 
        election submitted by the individual. The Secretary shall 
        provide the notice required under this paragraph by electronic 
        means whenever possible.
    ``(i) Irrevocability of Elections.--An election under subsection 
(a) or (c)(1) is irrevocable.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by striking the item relating to section 3325 
and inserting the following new items:

``3325. Election to receive educational assistance.
``3326. Reporting requirement.''.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Subsection (c) of section 5003 of the Post-
9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 
38 U.S.C. 3301 note) is hereby repealed.

SEC. 6. WORK-STUDY ALLOWANCE.

    Section 3485(a)(4) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``June 30, 2013'' each place it appears and inserting ``June 
30, 2013, or the period beginning on June 30, 2017, and ending on June 
30, 2022''.

SEC. 7. RETENTION OF ENTITLEMENT TO EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE DURING 
              CERTAIN ADDITIONAL PERIODS OF ACTIVE DUTY.

    (a) Educational Assistance Allowance.--Section 16131(c)(3)(B)(i) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or 12304'' and 
inserting ``12304, 12304a, or 12304b''.
    (b) Expiration Date.--Section 16133(b)(4) of such title is amended 
by striking ``or 12304'' and inserting ``12304, 12304a, or 12304b''.

SEC. 8. REPORTS ON PROGRESS OF STUDENTS RECEIVING POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL 
              ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 33 of title 38, United States Code, as 
amended by section 5, is further amended--
            (1) in subsection 3326(c), as redesignated--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' after the 
                semicolon;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph (3):
            ``(3) the information received by the Secretary under 
        section 3327 of this title; and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 3327. Report on student progress
    ``As a condition on approval under chapter 36 of this title of a 
course offered by an educational institution (as defined in section 
3452 of this title), each year, each educational institution (as so 
defined) that received a payment in that year on behalf of an 
individual entitled to educational assistance under this chapter shall 
submit to the Secretary such information regarding the academic 
progress of the individual as the Secretary may require.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter, as amended by section 5, is further amended by adding at 
the end the following new item:

``3327. Report on student progress.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 9. CENTRALIZED REPORTING OF VETERAN ENROLLMENT BY CERTAIN GROUPS, 
              DISTRICTS, AND CONSORTIUMS OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3684(a) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``32, 33,'' after 
        ``31,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) For purposes of this subsection, the term `educational 
institution' may include a group, district, or consortium of separately 
accredited educational institutions located in the same State that are 
organized in a manner that facilitates the centralized reporting of the 
enrollments in such group, district, or consortium of institutions.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to reports submitted on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 10. ROLE OF STATE APPROVING AGENCIES.

    (a) Approval of Certain Courses.--Section 3672(b)(2)(A) of title 
38, United States Code, is amended by striking ``the following'' and 
all that follows through the colon and inserting the following: ``a 
program of education is deemed to be approved for purposes of this 
chapter if a State approving agency, or the Secretary when acting in 
the role of a State approving agency, determines that the program is 
one of the following programs:''.
    (b) Approval of Other Courses.--Section 3675 of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary or a State 
                approving agency'' and inserting ``A State approving 
                agency, or the Secretary when acting in the role of a 
                State approving agency,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``offered by proprietary for-profit 
                educational institutions'' and inserting ``not covered 
                by section 3672 of this title''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter before paragraph (1), by striking 
                ``the Secretary or the State approving agency'' and 
                inserting ``the State approving agency, or the 
                Secretary when acting in the role of a State approving 
                agency,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Secretary 
                or the State approving agency'' and inserting ``the 
                State approving agency, or the Secretary when acting in 
                the role of a State approving agency''.

SEC. 11. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL FOR PURPOSES OF 
              EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS OF PROGRAMS DESIGNED TO PREPARE INDIVIDUALS FOR 
              LICENSURE OR CERTIFICATION.

    (a) Approval of Nonaccredited Courses.--Subsection (c) of section 
3676 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (14) as paragraph (16); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (13) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(14) In the case of a course designed to prepare an 
        individual for licensure or certification in a State, the 
        course--
                    ``(A) meets all instructional curriculum licensure 
                or certification requirements of such State; and
                    ``(B) in the case of a course designed to prepare 
                an individual for licensure to practice law in a State, 
                is accredited by an accrediting agency or association 
                recognized by the Secretary of Education under subpart 
                2 of part H of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1099b).
            ``(15) In the case of a course designed to prepare an 
        individual for employment pursuant to standards developed by a 
        board or agency of a State in an occupation that requires 
        approval, licensure, or certification, the course--
                    ``(A) meets such standards; and
                    ``(B) in the case of a course designed to prepare 
                an individual for licensure to practice law in a State, 
                is accredited by an accrediting agency or association 
                recognized by the Secretary of Education under subpart 
                2 of part H of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1099b).''.
    (b) Exceptions.--Such section is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(f)(1) The Secretary may waive the requirements of paragraph (14) 
or (15) of subsection (c) in the case of a course of education offered 
by an educational institution (either accredited or not accredited) if 
the Secretary determines all of the following:
            ``(A) The educational institution is not accredited by an 
        agency or association recognized by the Secretary of Education.
            ``(B) The course did not meet the requirements of such 
        paragraph at any time during the two-year period preceding the 
        date of the waiver.
            ``(C) The waiver furthers the purposes of the educational 
        assistance programs administered by the Secretary or would 
        further the education interests of individuals eligible for 
        assistance under such programs.
            ``(D) The educational institution does not provide any 
        commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based directly or 
        indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid 
        to any persons or entities engaged in any student recruiting or 
        admission activities or in making decisions regarding the award 
        of student financial assistance, except for the recruitment of 
        foreign students residing in foreign countries who are not 
        eligible to receive Federal student assistance.
    ``(2) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary 
issues a waiver under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to 
Congress notice of such waiver and a justification for issuing such 
waiver.''.
    (c) Approval of Accredited Courses.--Section 3675(b)(3) of such 
title, as amended by section 10, is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``and (3)'' and inserting ``(3), (14), 
        (15), and (16)''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``(or, with respect to such paragraphs (14) and 
        (15), the requirements under such paragraphs are waived 
        pursuant to subsection (f)(1) of section 3676 of this title)''.
    (d) Approval of Accredited Standard College Degree Programs Offered 
at Public or Not-for-profit Educational Institutions.--Section 
3672(b)(2) of such title is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ``An accredited'' 
        and inserting ``Except as provided in subparagraph (C), an 
        accredited''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) A course that is described in both subparagraph (A)(i) of 
this paragraph and in paragraph (14) or (15) of section 3676(c) of this 
title shall not be deemed to be approved for purposes of this chapter 
unless--
            ``(i) a State approving agency, or the Secretary when 
        acting in the role of a State approving agency, determines that 
        the course meets the applicable criteria in such paragraphs; or
            ``(ii) the Secretary issues a waiver for such course under 
        section 3676(f)(1) of this title.''.
    (e) Disapproval of Courses.--Section 3679 of such title is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the 
Secretary or the applicable State approving agency shall disapprove a 
course of education described in paragraph (14) or (15) of section 
3676(c) of this title unless the educational institution providing the 
course of education--
            ``(1) publicly discloses any conditions or additional 
        requirements, including training, experience, or examinations, 
        required to obtain the license, certification, or approval for 
        which the course of education is designed to provide 
        preparation; and
            ``(2) makes each disclosure required by paragraph (1) in a 
        manner that the Secretary considers prominent (as specified by 
        the Secretary in regulations prescribed for purposes of this 
        subsection).''.
    (f) Applicability.--If after enrollment in a course of education 
that is subject to disapproval by reason of an amendment made by this 
Act, an individual pursues one or more courses of education at the same 
educational institution while remaining continuously enrolled (other 
than during regularly scheduled breaks between courses, semesters, or 
terms) at that institution, any course so pursued by the individual at 
that institution while so continuously enrolled shall not be subject to 
disapproval by reason of such amendment.

SEC. 12. COMPLIANCE SURVEYS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3693 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following 
        new subsection (a):
    ``(a)(1) Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary shall 
conduct an annual compliance survey of educational institutions and 
training establishments offering one or more courses approved for the 
enrollment of eligible veterans or persons if at least 20 such veterans 
or persons are enrolled in any such course.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall--
            ``(A) design the compliance surveys required by paragraph 
        (1) to ensure that such institutions or establishments 
        described in such paragraph, as the case may be, and approved 
        courses are in compliance with all applicable provisions of 
        chapters 30 through 36 of this title;
            ``(B) survey each such educational institution and training 
        establishment not less than once during every two-year period; 
        and
            ``(C) assign not fewer than one education compliance 
        specialist to work on compliance surveys in any year for each 
        40 compliance surveys required to be made under this section 
        for such year.
    ``(3) The Secretary, in consultation with the State approving 
agencies, shall--
            ``(A) annually determine the parameters of the surveys 
        required under paragraph (1); and
            ``(B) not later than September 1 of each year, make 
        available to the State approving agencies a list of the 
        educational institutions and training establishments that will 
        be surveyed during the fiscal year following the date of making 
        such list available.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) In this section, the terms `educational institution' and 
`training establishment' have the meanings given such terms in section 
3452 of this title.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``subsection (a) of this section for an 
        annual compliance survey'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(1) 
        for a compliance survey'';
            (2) by striking ``institution'' and inserting ``educational 
        institution or training establishment''; and
            (3) by striking ``institution's demonstrated record of 
        compliance'' and inserting ``record of compliance of such 
        institution or establishment''.

SEC. 13. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT RELATING TO IN-STATE TUITION RATE FOR 
              INDIVIDUALS TO WHOM ENTITLEMENT IS TRANSFERRED UNDER ALL-
              VOLUNTEER FORCE EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM AND POST-
              9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Technical Amendment.--Subparagraph (B) of section 3679(c)(2) of 
title 38, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(B) An individual who is entitled to assistance under--
                    ``(i) section 3311(b)(9) of this title; or
                    ``(ii) section 3319 of this title by virtue of the 
                individual's relationship to--
                            ``(I) a veteran described in subparagraph 
                        (A); or
                            ``(II) a member of the uniformed services 
                        described in section 3319(b) of this title who 
                        is serving on active duty.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to a course, semester, or term that begins after 
July 1, 2017.

SEC. 14. AUTHORITY OF DIRECTORS OF VETERANS INTEGRATED SERVICE NETWORKS 
              TO INVESTIGATE MEDICAL CENTERS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--The Director of a Veterans Integrated Service 
Network of the Department of Veterans Affairs may contract with an 
appropriate entity specializing in civilian accreditation or health 
care evaluation to investigate any medical center within such Network 
to assess and report deficiencies of the facilities at such medical 
center.
    (b) Coordination.--Before entering into any contract under 
subsection (a), the Director of a Veterans Integrated Service Network 
shall notify the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Inspector General 
of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Comptroller General of 
the United States for purposes of coordinating any investigation 
conducted pursuant to such contract with any other investigations or 
accreditations that may be ongoing.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed--
            (1) to prevent the Office of the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs from conducting any review, 
        audit, evaluation, or inspection regarding a topic for which a 
        review is conducted under subsection (a); or
            (2) to modify the requirement that employees of the 
        Department assist with any review, audit, evaluation, or 
        inspection conducted by the Office of the Inspector General of 
        the Department.

            Passed the Senate December 10 (legislative day, December 
      9), 2016.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 3021

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 To amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the use of Post-9/
   11 Educational Assistance to pursue independent study programs at 
 certain educational institutions that are not institutions of higher 
                               learning.
