[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5364 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5364

  To provide States with flexibility to use Federal IV-E funding for 
 State child welfare programs to improve safety, permanency, and well-
    being outcomes for all children who need child welfare services.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 26, 2016

  Mr. Langevin (for himself, Mr. Marino, Ms. Bass, Mr. Hastings, Ms. 
   Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Cartwright, and Mrs. Dingell) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                             Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide States with flexibility to use Federal IV-E funding for 
 State child welfare programs to improve safety, permanency, and well-
    being outcomes for all children who need child welfare services.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``All Kids Matter 
Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
  TITLE I--FLEXIBILITY TO PROVIDE SERVICES TAILORED TO A CHILD'S AND 
                             FAMILY'S NEEDS

Sec. 101. Prevention, intervention, and support services before, 
                            during, and after placement in foster care.
Sec. 102. State option for simplified reimbursement of IV-E 
                            administrative costs.
          TITLE II--FLEXIBILITY TO SERVE ALL CHILDREN IN NEED

Sec. 201. Elimination of income barrier to serving all children in need 
                            of foster care maintenance payments.
Sec. 202. Elimination of barriers to permanency for older youth in 
                            foster care.
                        TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 301. Application to States with waivers and territories.
Sec. 302. Dissemination of best practices.
Sec. 303. Effective date.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Our Nation values the potential of all of our children 
        to thrive and ultimately contribute to the success of the 
        country.
            (2) Scientific research makes it clear that children do 
        best when they are part of healthy families.
            (3) The results of States operating child welfare programs 
        under waivers of requirements of title IV-E of the Social 
        Security Act provide further evidence that vulnerable children 
        and families can often safely be kept together and out of 
        foster care when they are provided with appropriate early 
        intervention services, preventive services, and support 
        services.
            (4) A modern child welfare system would not only allow, but 
        would encourage, States and Indian tribes to utilize evidence-
        based programs to keep families safely together, only using 
        foster care for cases where children's safety and well-being 
        are compromised.
            (5) The changes made by this Act will modernize the title 
        IV-E foster care program to include the coverage of State-based 
        support activities that focus on keeping a child safely in his 
        or her home, and if foster care is necessary, moving a child to 
        permanency as quickly as possible.

  TITLE I--FLEXIBILITY TO PROVIDE SERVICES TAILORED TO A CHILD'S AND 
                             FAMILY'S NEEDS

SEC. 101. PREVENTION, INTERVENTION, AND SUPPORT SERVICES BEFORE, 
              DURING, AND AFTER PLACEMENT IN FOSTER CARE.

    (a) State Plan Requirements.--Section 471 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
671) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (15)(B), by inserting ``, which 
                shall include the State identifying and providing 
                prevention, intervention, and support services (as 
                defined in section 475(13)) as appropriate,'' after 
                ``reasonable efforts'';
                    (B) in paragraph (34)(B), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (C) in paragraph (35)(B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(36) provides, not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this paragraph, that all at-risk children (as 
        defined in section 475(14)), children in foster care, and 
        children who have left foster care to return home through 
        reunification or reinstatement of parental rights or for 
        kinship guardianship or adoption, shall be provided with a 
        standard array of child welfare services consistent with 
        subsection (e)(1); and
            ``(37) provides, not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this paragraph, and not less than every 2 or 3 
        years thereafter (as required by the Secretary with respect to 
        a State on the basis of the Secretary's determination of the 
        State's success in keeping children safe and at home or on a 
        path toward permanency), that the State shall submit, as part 
        of the State plan required under subsection (a), and shall 
        update and revise as necessary--
                    ``(A) a description of the State activities and the 
                delivery mechanisms for achieving--
                            ``(i) increased permanency for all infants, 
                        children, and youth by reducing the time in 
                        foster placements when possible and promoting a 
                        successful transition to adulthood for older 
                        youth;
                            ``(ii) increased positive outcomes for 
                        infants, children, youth, and families in their 
                        homes and communities, including tribal 
                        communities, and improving the safety and well-
                        being of infants, children, and youth; and
                            ``(iii) the prevention of child abuse and 
                        neglect and the re-entry of infants, children, 
                        and youth into foster care;
                    ``(B) a description of the performance benchmarks 
                for assessing the State's progress in achieving the 
                goals described in subparagraph (A);
                    ``(C) a description of the standard array of child 
                welfare services for at-risk children, children in 
                foster care, and children who have left foster care to 
                return home through reunification or reinstatement of 
                parental rights or for kinship guardianship or 
                adoption, in accordance with subsection (e)(1); and
                    ``(D) a description of the State's plan for 
                ensuring that congregate care is used appropriately and 
                reduces the placement of children and youth in such 
                care.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Standard Array of Child Welfare Services.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of subsection (a)(36), with 
        respect to a State, the standard array of child welfare 
        services required under this subsection for at-risk children, 
        children in foster care, and children who have left foster care 
        to return home through reunification or reinstatement of 
        parental rights or for kinship guardianship or adoption, shall 
        be established by the Secretary in consultation with the 
        director of the State child welfare agency for the State. At a 
        minimum, a standard array of child welfare services established 
        by a State shall--
                    ``(A) include prevention, intervention, and support 
                services (as defined in section 475(13)); and
                    ``(B) be made available until a child attains 18 
                years of age or such greater age as the State may elect 
                under section 475(8)(B)(iii) to both the child and the 
                child's family, guardian, or caretaker.
            ``(2) Types of services.--The standard array of child 
        welfare services established with respect to a State may 
        include any or all of the following:
                    ``(A) Family engagement.
                    ``(B) Trauma-informed child assessment.
                    ``(C) Trauma-focused behavioral health treatment.
                    ``(D) Permanency Round Tables.
                    ``(E) Kinship Supports.
            ``(3) Interaction with part b services.--If a State 
        determines that a child is an at-risk child, a child in foster 
        care, or a child who has left foster care to return home 
        through reunification or reinstatement of parental rights or 
        for kinship guardianship or adoption, the child shall be 
        eligible for services provided under the State plans approved 
        under part B in addition to the standard array of child welfare 
        services required under paragraph (1).
            ``(4) Payment requirements.--Payments to States under 
        section 474(a)(6) for expenditures attributable to the 
        provision of prevention, intervention, and support services 
        shall only be made if--
                    ``(A) the State provides or conducts regular State-
                specific assessments of the outcomes for children and 
                families in relation to the provision of such services; 
                and
                    ``(B) the State provides an assurance that such 
                payments shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, 
                the level of State funds expended to provide any 
                service under part B or this part for fiscal year 
                2015.''.
    (b) Definitions.--Section 475 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 675) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(13)(A) Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), the term 
        `prevention, intervention, and support services' has the 
        meaning given such term as the Secretary, by regulation, shall 
        establish, and shall include the following:
                    ``(i) Initial family assessments for a child 
                identified as an at-risk child (as defined in paragraph 
                (14)) in accordance with standards established by the 
                Secretary that require a case worker to identify what 
                the child needs to stay safely in his or her home or, 
                if the child cannot stay safely in their home, that 
                specifies that the child needs a safe placement outside 
                the home as soon as possible.
                    ``(ii) Follow-up assessments after a child has been 
                identified as an at-risk child, placed in foster care, 
                or has left foster care to return home through 
                reunification or reinstatement of parental rights or 
                for kinship guardianship or adoption, in accordance 
                with standards established by the Secretary.
                    ``(iii) In-home services for at-risk children, 
                children in foster care, and children who have left 
                foster care to return home through reunification or 
                reinstatement of parental rights or for kinship 
                guardianship or adoption, and for the families, 
                guardians, or caretakers of such children.
                    ``(iv) Case management services for at-risk 
                children, children in foster care, and children who 
                have left foster care to return home through 
                reunification or reinstatement of parental rights or 
                for kinship guardianship or adoption, and for the 
                families, guardians, or caretakers of such children.
                    ``(v) Post-permanency supports for at-risk children 
                and children who have left foster care to return home 
                through reunification or reinstatement of parental 
                rights or for kinship guardianship or adoption, and for 
                the families, guardians, or caretakers of such 
                children.
            ``(B) The regulation required under subparagraph (A) shall 
        provide that such term means any services provided to a child, 
        parent, legal or relative guardian, family, or caregiver that 
        are intended to meet the needs of the child, parent, legal or 
        relative guardian, family, or caregiver--
                    ``(i) prior to the placement of a child in foster 
                care, enable the child to safely remain with the 
                child's family;
                    ``(ii) after the placement of a child in foster 
                care, enable the child to be safely reunited with the 
                child's family; and
                    ``(iii) after a child in foster care is reunited 
                with the child's family, adopted, or permanently placed 
                with a guardian, ensure the stability, health, and 
                safety of the child.
            ``(C) The regulations required under subparagraph (A) shall 
        provide that such term shall only include services that are 
        evidence-based or evidence-informed and address specific 
        outcomes related to safety, permanency, or well-being for at-
        risk children, children in foster care, and children who have 
        left foster care to return home through reunification or 
        reinstatement of parental rights or for kinship guardianship or 
        adoption.
    ``(14)(A) The term `at-risk child' means a child at risk of 
entering or re-entering the child welfare system based on criteria 
established by the Secretary in consultation with the States.
    ``(B) Such term shall include a child who is determined to be at 
risk of entering or re-entering the child welfare system on the basis 
of an appeal by a State under such procedures as the Secretary shall 
establish.''.
    (c) Payment for Services and Performance Achievement Under Title 
IV-E.--Section 474(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 674(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; plus''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) subject to section 471(e)(4), for each quarter 
        beginning after September 30, 2017, an amount equal to the 
        Federal medical assistance percentage (which shall be as 
        defined in subsection (b) of section 1905 without regard to any 
        increase applicable under another subsection of that section, 
        in the case of a State other than the District of Columbia, or 
        70 percent, in the case of the District of Columbia) of the 
        total amount expended during such quarter as found necessary by 
        the Secretary for the provision of prevention, intervention, 
        and support services (as defined in section 475(13)) for at-
        risk children (as defined in section 475(14)), children in 
        foster care, and children who have left foster care to return 
        home through reunification or reinstatement of parental rights 
        or for kinship guardianship or adoption, and for the families, 
        guardians, or caretakers of such children (or, with respect to 
        such payments made during such quarter under a cooperative 
        agreement or contract entered into by the State and an Indian 
        tribe, tribal organization, or tribal consortium for the 
        administration or payment of funds under this part, an amount 
        equal to the Federal medical assistance percentage that would 
        apply under section 479B(d) (in this paragraph referred to as 
        the `tribal FMAP') if such Indian tribe, tribal organization, 
        or tribal consortium made such payments under a program 
        operated under that section, unless the tribal FMAP is less 
        than the Federal medical assistance percentage that applies to 
        the State); plus
            ``(7) for each quarter beginning after September 30, 2018, 
        if the State is eligible for a performance achievement payment 
        for a fiscal year under section 471(f), an amount equal to \1/
        4\ of the performance achievement payment determined for the 
        State for the fiscal year under section 471(f).''.
    (d) Performance Assessment; Evaluations and Reports.--Section 471 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 671) (as amended by subsection (c)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Performance Achievement.--The Secretary shall establish 
criteria for assessing State performance with respect to achieving the 
goals described in subsection (a)(37)(A) and furthering the purposes of 
this part and for awarding performance achievement payments to States 
under section 474(a)(7).
    ``(g) Evaluations and Reports.--
            ``(1) Evaluations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary, directly or 
                through grants, contracts, or interagency agreements, 
                shall conduct research and evaluations with respect to 
                the payments made under paragraphs (6) and (7) of 
                section 474(a) for purposes of assessing the extent to 
                which the provision of payments under such paragraphs 
                are related to State progress towards achieving the 
                goals described in subsection (a)(37)(A) and the 
                purposes of this part.
                    ``(B) State cooperation.--In order to be entitled 
                to a payment under paragraphs (6) or (7) of section 
                474(a), a State shall agree to cooperate with the 
                conduct of any such research or evaluations.
            ``(2) Reports.--
                    ``(A) State reports.--Each State that receives a 
                payment under paragraph (6) or (7) of section 474(a) 
                shall submit such reports to the Secretary as the 
                Secretary may require with respect to State 
                expenditures for which payments are made under that 
                section.
                    ``(B) Reports to congress.--The Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House 
                of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the 
                Senate periodic reports based on the State reports 
                submitted under subparagraph (A) and the research and 
                evaluations conducted under paragraph (1), together 
                with such recommendations for administrative or 
                legislative changes as the Secretary determines 
                appropriate.
                    ``(C) Public availability.--The Secretary shall 
                make the State reports and the reports to Congress 
                submitted under this paragraph publicly available.''.
    (e) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Purpose.--The first sentence of section 470 of such Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 670) is amended by striking ``foster care'' and all 
        that follows through ``needs'' and inserting ``prevention, 
        intervention, and support services, foster care, transitional 
        independent living programs for children, support for children 
        who have left foster care to return home through reunification 
        or reinstatement of parental rights, kinship guardianship 
        assistance, adoption assistance for children with special 
        needs, and performance achievement payments''.
            (2) State plan.--Section 471(a)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
        671(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``and'' and all that follows 
        through the semicolon and inserting ``, adoption assistance in 
        accordance with section 473, and prevention, intervention, and 
        support services for at-risk children, children in foster care, 
        and children who have left foster care to return home through 
        reunification or reinstatement of parental rights or for 
        kinship guardianship or adoption in accordance with subsection 
        (e);''.
            (3) Training.--Section 474(a)(3)(B) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
        674(a)(3)(B)) is amended by inserting ``and in ways that 
        include training on how to provide such support and assistance, 
        as well as training on prevention, intervention, and support 
        services and how to provide such services,'' after ``living 
        with relative guardians,''.

SEC. 102. STATE OPTION FOR SIMPLIFIED REIMBURSEMENT OF IV-E 
              ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.

    Section 474 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 674) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(3), in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A), by inserting ``subsection (h) and'' before 
        ``section 472(i)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) State Option To Elect Allotment for Specified Administrative 
Costs.--
            ``(1) Process for determination of administrative costs 
        allotment.--For fiscal years beginning after September 30, 
        2017, a State may elect to be paid an administrative costs 
        allotment for a fiscal year under this subsection in lieu of 
        receiving payments under subsection (a)(3) for each quarter of 
        the fiscal year for the costs that are specified to be paid out 
        of the allotment. The Secretary shall determine the alternative 
        administrative costs allotment for a State for a fiscal year 
        by--
                    ``(A) consulting with the State;
                    ``(B) identifying the specific categories of 
                administrative costs that will be paid out of the 
                allotment;
                    ``(C) taking into account the State's historical 
                and projected expenditures for such categories of 
                administrative costs; and
                    ``(D) taking into account such other data or 
                information as the Secretary and the State determine 
                appropriate.
            ``(2) Simplified reporting.--The Secretary shall establish 
        a simplified, streamlined process for a State with an 
        administrative costs allotment for a fiscal year to report 
        expenditures from the allotment with respect to the fiscal year 
        that shall apply in lieu of any other reporting requirements 
        under this part that would otherwise apply to such 
        expenditures.''.

          TITLE II--FLEXIBILITY TO SERVE ALL CHILDREN IN NEED

SEC. 201. ELIMINATION OF INCOME BARRIER TO SERVING ALL CHILDREN IN NEED 
              OF FOSTER CARE MAINTENANCE PAYMENTS.

    (a) Delinkage of AFDC Eligibility Criteria.--Section 472(a) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 672(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``specified'' and all that follows through the 
        period and inserting ``or caretaker into foster care if the 
        removal and foster care placement met, and continue to meet, 
        the requirements of paragraph (2).'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A)(i), by inserting ``or caretaker'' 
        after ``relative''; and
            (3) by striking paragraphs (3) and (4).
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 479B(c)(1)(C)(ii) of such Act 
(42 U.S.C. 679c(c)(1)(C)(ii)) is amended to read as follows:
                            ``(ii) Satisfaction of foster care 
                        eligibility requirements.--For purposes of 
                        determining whether the removal and foster care 
                        placement of a child whose placement and care 
                        are the responsibility of an Indian tribe, 
                        tribal organization, or tribal consortium with 
                        a plan approved under section 471 in accordance 
                        with this section satisfies the requirements of 
                        section 472(a), with respect to the first 12 
                        months for which such plan is in effect, 
                        paragraph (1) of section 472(a) shall not be 
                        interpreted so as to prohibit the use of 
                        affidavits or nunc pro tunc orders as 
                        verification documents in support of the 
                        reasonable efforts and contrary to the welfare 
                        of the child judicial determinations required 
                        under that paragraph.''.
    (c) Budget Neutral Implementation.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
jointly shall submit to Congress a plan that specifies such legislative 
and administrative actions as the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
determine are necessary to ensure that the amendments made by 
subsections (a) and (b) are implemented in a manner that is budget 
neutral.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall take effect on the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2018; or
            (2) the date that is 180 days after the date the plan 
        required under subsection (c) is submitted to Congress.

SEC. 202. ELIMINATION OF BARRIERS TO PERMANENCY FOR OLDER YOUTH IN 
              FOSTER CARE.

    (a) Expansion of State Option To Provide Services to Youth Who Have 
Attained Age 18.--Section 475(8)(B)(iv) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 675(8)(B)(iv)) is amended--
            (1) in subclause (IV), by striking ``or'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in subclause (V), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subclause:
                                    ``(VI) pursuing legal permanency 
                                through family reunification, permanent 
                                placement with a relative, adoption, 
                                legal guardianship, other planned 
                                permanent living arrangement, or such 
                                other pathways to permanency as the 
                                State, in consultation with the 
                                Secretary, may specify.''.
    (b) Extending Eligibility for Chafee Program Services and Education 
and Training Vouchers to Youth Who Return Home After Attaining Age 
16.--Section 477 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 677) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(7), by inserting ``, or who return 
        home through reunification or reinstatement of parental 
        rights'' before the semicolon; and
            (2) in subsection (i)(2), by inserting ``, or who return 
        home through reunification or reinstatement of parental 
        rights,'' after ``foster care''.
    (c) Development and Dissemination of Permanency-Supportive Housing 
Options.--Not later than September 30, 2017, the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and 
the Secretary of Education, jointly shall do the following:
            (1) Develop and disseminate to states.--Develop and 
        disseminate to States flexible supportive housing options, 
        developed in consultation with States, foster youth, providers, 
        and other important stakeholders, that provide opportunities 
        for youth who age out of foster care to achieve legal and 
        lifelong permanency while living independently, and which allow 
        for developmentally appropriate housing situations, including 
        dorm living, room leases, and roommate situations.
            (2) Recommendations to congress.--Submit recommendations, 
        developed in consultation with States, foster youth, providers, 
        and other important stakeholders, to Congress for such 
        legislative action as the Secretaries determine are necessary 
        to increase the availability of flexible supportive housing 
        options that would allow youth who age out of foster care to 
        achieve legal and lifelong permanency.

                        TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 301. APPLICATION TO STATES WITH WAIVERS AND TERRITORIES.

    (a) Application to States With Waivers.--
            (1) General nonapplication.--If any waiver granted to a 
        State, Indian tribe, tribal organization, or tribal consortium 
        under section 1130 of this Act or otherwise which relates to 
        the provision of assistance under a State plan under this part 
        (as in effect on September 30, 2015) is in effect as of the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the amendments made by this Act 
        shall not apply with respect to the State, Indian tribe, tribal 
        organization, or tribal consortium before the expiration of the 
        waiver to the extent such amendments are inconsistent with the 
        waiver.
            (2) Early termination.--
                    (A) Report.--If a State, Indian tribe, tribal 
                organization, or tribal consortium elects to terminate 
                a waiver described in paragraph (1) before the 
                expiration of the waiver, the State, Indian tribe, 
                tribal organization, or tribal consortium shall submit 
                a report to the Secretary summarizing the waiver and 
                any available information concerning the result or 
                effect of the waiver.
                    (B) Hold harmless provision.--
                            (i) In general.--Notwithstanding any other 
                        provision of law, a State, Indian tribe, tribal 
                        organization, or tribal consortium that, not 
                        later than the date described in clause (ii) of 
                        this subparagraph, submits a written request to 
                        terminate a waiver described in paragraph (1) 
                        shall be held harmless for accrued cost 
                        neutrality liabilities incurred under the 
                        waiver.
                            (ii) Date described.--The date described in 
                        this subparagraph is 90 days following the 
                        adjournment of the first regular session of the 
                        State legislature that begins after the date of 
                        the enactment of this Act (or in the case of an 
                        Indian tribe, tribal organization, or tribal 
                        consortium, 90 days following such date as the 
                        Secretary shall establish in consultation with 
                        the Indian tribe, tribal organization, or 
                        tribal consortium).
            (3) Secretarial encouragement of current waivers.--The 
        Secretary shall encourage any State, Indian tribe, tribal 
        organization, or tribal consortium operating a waiver described 
        in paragraph (1) to continue the waiver and to evaluate the 
        result or effect of the waiver.
            (4) Continuation of individual waivers.--A State, Indian 
        tribe, tribal organization, or tribal consortium may elect to 
        continue one or more individual waivers described in paragraph 
        (1).
    (b) Indian Tribes Operating IV-E Programs Considered States.--Not 
later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall issue guidance regarding how an Indian tribe, tribal 
organization, or tribal consortium that has elected to operate a 
program under part E of title IV of the Social Security Act in 
accordance with section 479B of such Act (42 U.S.C. 679c) may revise 
the tribal plan submitted in accordance with such section to take into 
account, as appropriate, the amendments made by this Act.
    (c) Disregard From Limitation on Total Payments to Territories.--
Section 1108(a)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(a)(2)) is 
amended by striking ``or 413(f)'' and inserting ``413(f), 474(a)(6), 
474(a)(7), or 474(h)''.

SEC. 302. DISSEMINATION OF BEST PRACTICES.

    The Secretary of Health and Human Services annually shall identify 
and disseminate to States best practices for achieving safety, 
permanency, and well-being outcomes for children in need of child 
welfare services.

SEC. 303. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided and subject to 
subsection (b), this Act and the amendments made by this Act take 
effect on October 1, 2015.
    (b) Delay Permitted if State Legislation Required.--In the case of 
a State plan under part E of title IV of the Social Security Act which 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines requires State 
legislation (other than legislation appropriating funds) in order for 
the plan to meet the additional requirements imposed by the amendments 
made by this Act, the State plan shall not be regarded as failing to 
comply with the requirements of such part solely on the basis of the 
failure of the plan to meet such additional requirements before the 
first day of the first calendar quarter beginning after the close of 
the first regular session of the State legislature that begins after 
the date of enactment of this Act. For purposes of the previous 
sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year legislative session, 
each year of such session shall be deemed to be a separate regular 
session of the State legislature.
                                 <all>
