[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3463 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3463

 To amend title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act to clarify the 
  treatment of pediatric dental coverage in the individual and group 
 markets outside of Exchanges established under the Patient Protection 
            and Affordable Care Act, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 9, 2015

  Mr. Griffith (for himself and Ms. DeGette) introduced the following 
    bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act to clarify the 
  treatment of pediatric dental coverage in the individual and group 
 markets outside of Exchanges established under the Patient Protection 
            and Affordable Care Act, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Aligning Children's Dental Coverage 
Act''.

SEC. 2. TREATMENT OF PEDIATRIC DENTAL COVERAGE OUTSIDE OF ACA 
              EXCHANGES.

    (a) In General.--Section 2707 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300gg-6) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``A health'' and 
        inserting ``Subject to subsection (e), a health'';
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``section 
        1302(d)(2)(B)(ii)(I)'' and inserting ``section 
        1311(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
        Act''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Treatment of Pediatric Dental Coverage.--If a plan described 
in section 1311(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act (relating to standalone dental benefits) is offered in the 
individual or small group market in a State and the issuer of such plan 
certifies to the State that the plan offers pediatric dental benefits 
meeting the requirements of section 1302(b)(1)(J) of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act, any other health insurance coverage 
or group health plan offered in such market in such State shall not 
fail to be treated as satisfying the requirements of subsection (a) 
solely because the coverage or health plan does not offer coverage of 
benefits offered through the standalone plan that are otherwise 
required under such section 1302(b)(1)(J).''.
    (b) Technical Correction to Treatment of ACA Exchanges Coverage.--
Section 1302(b)(4)(F) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
(42 U.S.C.18022(b)(4)(F)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``section 1311(b)(2)(B)(ii)'' and inserting 
        ``section 1311(d)(2)(B)(ii)''; and
            (2) by striking ``is offered through an Exchange, another 
        health plan offered through such Exchange'' and inserting ``is 
        offered through an Exchange (or in the case of a plan not 
        offered through an Exchange, offered in the individual or small 
        group market in a State), another health plan offered through 
        such Exchange (or, in such individual or small group market in 
        the State, as applicable)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply as if included in the enactment of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act.
                                 <all>
