[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1725 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 144
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1725

                          [Report No. 114-79]

Making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              July 9, 2015

    Mr. Graham, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, $6,342,470,000, of which up to 
$637,164,000 may remain available until September 30, 2017, and of 
which up to $2,094,707,000 may remain available until expended for 
Worldwide Security Protection:  Provided, That funds made available 
under this heading shall be allocated in accordance with paragraphs (1) 
through (4) as follows:
            (1) Human resources.--For necessary expenses for training, 
        human resources management, and salaries, including employment 
        without regard to civil service and classification laws of 
        persons on a temporary basis (not to exceed $700,000), as 
        authorized by section 801 of the United States Information and 
        Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (Public Law 80-402), 
        $2,238,853,000, of which up to $358,833,000 is for Worldwide 
        Security Protection.
            (2) Overseas programs.--For necessary expenses for the 
        regional bureaus of the Department of State and overseas 
        activities as authorized by law, $1,561,840,000.
            (3) Diplomatic policy and support.--For necessary expenses 
        for the functional bureaus of the Department of State, 
        including representation to certain international organizations 
        in which the United States participates pursuant to treaties 
        ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate or 
        specific Acts of Congress, general administration, and arms 
        control, nonproliferation and disarmament activities as 
        authorized, $787,951,000.
            (4) Security programs.--For necessary expenses for security 
        activities, $1,753,826,000, of which up to $1,735,874,000 is 
        for Worldwide Security Protection.
            (5) Fees and payments collected.--In addition to amounts 
        otherwise made available under this heading--
                    (A) not to exceed $1,840,900 shall be derived from 
                fees collected from other executive agencies for lease 
                or use of facilities located at the International 
                Center in accordance with section 4 of the 
                International Center Act (Public Law 97-186), and, in 
                addition, as authorized by section 5 of such Act, 
                $743,000, to be derived from the reserve authorized by 
                that section, to be used for the purposes set out in 
                that section;
                    (B) as authorized by section 810 of Public Law 80-
                402, not to exceed $5,000,000, to remain available 
                until expended, may be credited to this appropriation 
                from fees or other payments received from English 
                teaching, library, motion pictures, and publication 
                programs and from fees from educational advising and 
                counseling and exchange visitor programs; and
                    (C) not to exceed $15,000, which shall be derived 
                from reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of 
                Blair House facilities.
            (6) Transfer, reprogramming, and other matters.--
                    (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
                Act, funds may be reprogrammed within and between 
                paragraphs (1) through (4) under this heading subject 
                to section 7015 of this Act.
                    (B) Of the amount made available under this 
                heading, not to exceed $10,000,000 may be transferred 
                to, and merged with, funds made available by this Act 
                under the heading ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and 
                Consular Service'', to be available only for emergency 
                evacuations and rewards, as authorized.
                    (C) Funds appropriated under this heading are 
                available for acquisition by exchange or purchase of 
                passenger motor vehicles as authorized by law and, 
                pursuant to section 1108(g) of title 31, United States 
                Code, for the field examination of programs and 
                activities in the United States funded from any account 
                contained in this title.
                    (D) Of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
                up to $11,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
                shall be for Conflict Stabilization Operations (CSO) 
                and for related reconstruction and stabilization 
                assistance to prevent or respond to conflict or civil 
                strife in foreign countries or regions, or to enable 
                transition from such strife:  Provided, That additional 
                funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
                available, as necessary, only to fund the salary and 
                benefit costs for CSO staff employed on the date of 
                enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That funds 
                appropriated under this heading may be transferred to, 
                and merged with, funds previously made available under 
                the heading ``Conflict Stabilization Operations'' in 
                title I of prior acts making appropriations for the 
                Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
                programs.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, $56,400,000, 
to remain available until expended, as authorized.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$72,700,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465), as it relates to post inspections:  
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$10,905,000 may remain available until September 30, 2017.

               educational and cultural exchange programs

    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, as 
authorized, $590,900,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not less than $236,000,000 shall be for the Fulbright Program:  
Provided, That fees or other payments received from, or in connection 
with, English teaching, educational advising and counseling programs, 
and exchange visitor programs as authorized may be credited to this 
account, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, That a 
portion of the Fulbright awards from the Eurasia and Central Asia 
regions shall be designated as Edmund S. Muskie Fellowships, following 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 62.32(h)(16) of title 22 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations, the Secretary of State shall permit participants 
in the Summer Work Travel program who are admitted under section 
101(a)(15)(J) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1101(a)(15)(J)) to be employed in seafood processing positions until 
September 30, 2016, if such placements comply with all the requirements 
of such program:  Provided further, That any substantive modifications 
from the prior fiscal year to programs funded by this Act under this 
heading shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

                        representation expenses

    For representation expenses as authorized, $8,030,000.

              protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services, as authorized, 
$29,807,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

            embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926 (22 U.S.C. 292 et seq.), preserving, maintaining, 
repairing, and planning for buildings that are owned or directly leased 
by the Department of State, renovating, in addition to funds otherwise 
available, the Harry S Truman Building, and carrying out the Diplomatic 
Security Construction Program as authorized, $785,097,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized, of which not to exceed $25,000 
may be used for domestic and overseas representation expenses as 
authorized:  Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph shall be available for acquisition of furniture, furnishings, 
or generators for other departments and agencies.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized, $1,300,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations the proposed allocation of funds made 
available under this heading and the actual and anticipated proceeds of 
sales for all projects in fiscal year 2016.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For necessary expenses to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service, 
$7,900,000, to remain available until expended as authorized, of which 
not to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Repatriation Loans Program 
Account'', subject to the same terms and conditions.

                   repatriation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,300,000, as authorized:  Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That such funds are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$2,444,528.

              payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act 
(Public Law 96-8), $30,000,000.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized, $158,900,000.

                      International Organizations

              contributions to international organizations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet annual 
obligations of membership in international multilateral organizations, 
pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the 
Senate, conventions or specific Acts of Congress, $1,456,179,000:  
Provided, That the Secretary of State shall, at the time of the 
submission of the President's budget to Congress under section 1105(a) 
of title 31, United States Code, transmit to the Committees on 
Appropriations the most recent biennial budget prepared by the United 
Nations for the operations of the United Nations:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of State shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations at least 15 days in advance (or in an emergency, as far 
in advance as is practicable) of any United Nations action to increase 
funding for any United Nations program without identifying an 
offsetting decrease elsewhere in the United Nations budget:  Provided 
further, That not later than May 1, 2016, and 30 days after the end of 
fiscal year 2016, the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees 
on Appropriations any credits available to the United States, including 
from the United Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and provide updated 
fiscal year 2016 and fiscal year 2017 assessment costs including 
offsets from available credits and updated foreign currency exchange 
rates:  Provided further, That any such credits shall only be available 
for United States assessed contributions to the United Nations and the 
Committees on Appropriations shall be notified when such credits are 
applied to any assessed contribution, including any payment of 
arrearages:  Provided further, That any notification regarding funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this heading in this Act 
or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs submitted pursuant to section 
7015 of this Act, section 34 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706), or any operating plan submitted pursuant 
to section 7076 of this Act, shall include an estimate of all known 
credits currently available to the United States and provide updated 
assessment costs including offsets from available credits and updated 
foreign currency exchange rates:  Provided further, That any payment of 
arrearages under this heading shall be directed to activities that are 
mutually agreed upon by the United States and the respective 
international organization and shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be available for a United States contribution to an international 
organization for the United States share of interest costs made known 
to the United States Government by such organization for loans incurred 
on or after October 1, 1984, through external borrowings.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities directed to the maintenance or 
restoration of international peace and security, $2,248,223,000, of 
which 15 percent shall remain available until September 30, 2017:  
Provided, That none of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
obligated or expended for any new or expanded United Nations 
peacekeeping mission unless, at least 15 days in advance of voting for 
such mission in the United Nations Security Council (or in an emergency 
as far in advance as is practicable), the Committees on Appropriations 
are notified: (1) of the estimated cost and duration of the mission, 
the objectives of the mission, the national interest that will be 
served, and the exit strategy; and (2) the source of funds that will be 
used to pay the cost of the new or expanded mission, and the estimated 
cost in future fiscal years:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available for obligation 
unless the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees 
on Appropriations on a peacekeeping mission-by-mission basis that the 
United Nations is implementing effective policies and procedures to 
prevent United Nations employees, contractor personnel, and 
peacekeeping troops serving in such mission from trafficking in 
persons, exploiting victims of trafficking, or committing acts of 
illegal sexual exploitation or other violations of human rights, and to 
bring to justice individuals who engage in such acts while 
participating in such mission, including prosecution in their home 
countries and making information about such prosecutions publicly 
available on the Web site of the United Nations:  Provided further, 
That funds shall be available for peacekeeping expenses unless the 
Secretary of State determines that American manufacturers and suppliers 
are not being given opportunities to provide equipment, services, and 
material for United Nations peacekeeping activities equal to those 
being given to foreign manufacturers and suppliers:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of State shall work with the United Nations and 
foreign governments contributing peacekeeping troops to implement 
effective vetting procedures to ensure that such troops have not 
violated human rights, and shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act 
assessing the effectiveness of such procedures:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this 
heading may be used for any United Nations peacekeeping mission that 
will involve United States Armed Forces under the command or 
operational control of a foreign national, unless the President's 
military advisors have submitted to the President a recommendation that 
such involvement is in the national interest of the United States and 
the President has submitted to Congress such a recommendation:  
Provided further, That not later than May 1, 2016, and 30 days after 
the end of fiscal year 2016, the Secretary of State shall report to the 
Committees on Appropriations any credits available to the United 
States, including those resulting from United Nations peacekeeping 
missions or the United Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and provide 
updated fiscal year 2016 and fiscal year 2017 assessment costs 
including offsets from available credits:  Provided further, That any 
such credits shall only be available for United States assessed 
contributions to the United Nations, and the Committees on 
Appropriations shall be notified when such credits are applied to any 
assessed contribution, including any payment of arrearages:  Provided 
further, That any notification regarding funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available under this heading in this Act or prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs submitted pursuant to section 7015 of this Act, 
section 34 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2706), or any operating plan submitted pursuant to section 7076 
of this Act, shall include an estimate of all known credits currently 
available to the United States and provide updated assessment costs 
including offsets from available credits:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available under this heading may be made available for 
United States assessed contributions up to the amount specified in the 
Annex accompanying United Nations General Assembly document A/67/224/
Add.1, if the Secretary of State determines and reports to the 
appropriate congressional committees that to do so is important to the 
national interest of the United States.

                       International Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or specific 
Acts of Congress, as follows:

 international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation expenses; as follows:

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $45,307,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $28,400,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized.

              american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by treaties between 
the United States and Canada or Great Britain, and the Border 
Environment Cooperation Commission as authorized by the North American 
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act, $12,330,000:  Provided, That 
of the amount provided under this heading for the International Joint 
Commission, up to $500,000 may remain available until September 30, 
2017, and $9,000 may be made available for representation expenses.

                  international fisheries commissions

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $36,681,000:  Provided, 
That the United States share of such expenses may be advanced to the 
respective commissions pursuant to section 3324 of title 31, United 
States Code.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 international broadcasting operations

    For necessary expenses to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors (BBG), as authorized, to carry out international 
communication activities, and to make and supervise grants for radio 
and television broadcasting to the Middle East, $728,257,000:  
Provided, That in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes, up to $28,635,000 of the amount appropriated under this 
heading may remain available until expended for satellite transmissions 
and Internet freedom programs, of which not less than $12,500,000 shall 
be for Internet freedom programs:  Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $35,000 may be 
used for representation expenses, of which $10,000 may be used for 
representation expenses within the United States as authorized, and not 
to exceed $30,000 may be used for representation expenses of Radio Free 
Europe/Radio Liberty:  Provided further, That the authority provided by 
section 504(c) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 
2003 (Public Law 107-228; 22 U.S.C. 6206 note) shall remain in effect 
through September 30, 2016:  Provided further, That the BBG shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations within 15 days of any 
determination by the Board that any of its broadcast entities, 
including its grantee organizations, provides an open platform for 
international terrorists or those who support international terrorism, 
or is in violation of the principles and standards set forth in 
subsections (a) and (b) of section 303 of the United States 
International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6202) or the entity's 
journalistic code of ethics:  Provided further, That significant 
modifications to BBG broadcast hours previously justified to Congress, 
including changes to transmission platforms (shortwave, medium wave, 
satellite, Internet, and television), for all BBG language services 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That in addition to 
funds made available under this heading, and notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, up to $5,000,000 in receipts from advertising and 
revenue from business ventures, up to $500,000 in receipts from 
cooperating international organizations, and up to $1,000,000 in 
receipts from privatization efforts of the Voice of America and the 
International Broadcasting Bureau, shall remain available until 
expended for carrying out authorized purposes.

                   broadcasting capital improvements

    For the purchase, rent, construction, repair, preservation, and 
improvement of facilities for radio, television, and digital 
transmission and reception; the purchase, rent, and installation of 
necessary equipment for radio, television, and digital transmission and 
reception, including to Cuba, as authorized; and physical security 
worldwide, in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes, $4,800,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized.

                            RELATED PROGRAMS

                          The Asia Foundation

    For a grant to The Asia Foundation, as authorized by The Asia 
Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 4402), $17,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                    United States Institute of Peace

    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of Peace, as 
authorized by the United States Institute of Peace Act (22 U.S.C. 4601 
et seq.), $35,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, 
which shall not be used for construction activities.

         Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund

    For necessary expenses of the Center for Middle Eastern-Western 
Dialogue Trust Fund, as authorized by section 633 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2004 (22 U.S.C. 2078), the total amount of the 
interest and earnings accruing to such Fund on or before September 30, 
2016, to remain available until expended.

                 Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-5205), all interest and 
earnings accruing to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust 
Fund on or before September 30, 2016, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall 
be used to pay any salary or other compensation, or to enter into any 
contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by section 5376 of title 5, United States Code; or for 
purposes which are not in accordance with section 200 of title 2 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations, including the restrictions on compensation 
for personal services.

                    Israeli Arab Scholarship Program

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program, as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings 
accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 
30, 2016, to remain available until expended.

                            East-West Center

    To enable the Secretary of State to provide for carrying out the 
provisions of the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between 
East and West Act of 1960, by grant to the Center for Cultural and 
Technical Interchange Between East and West in the State of Hawaii, 
$16,700,000.

                    National Endowment for Democracy

    For grants made by the Department of State to the National 
Endowment for Democracy, as authorized by the National Endowment for 
Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4412), $170,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                           OTHER COMMISSIONS

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of 
America's Heritage Abroad, $676,000, as authorized by chapter 3123 of 
title 54, United States Code:  Provided, That the Commission may 
procure temporary, intermittent, and other services notwithstanding 
paragraph (3) of section 312304(b) of such chapter:  Provided further, 
That such authority shall terminate on October 1, 2016:  Provided 
further, That the Commission shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations prior to exercising such authority.

      United States Commission on International Religious Freedom

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom established in title II of the 
International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6431 et seq.), 
$3,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, including not 
more than $4,000 for representation expenses, subject to authorization.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by sections 3001 et seq. of title 
22, United States Code, $2,579,000, including not more than $4,000 for 
representation expenses, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Congressional-Executive Commission on 
the People's Republic of China, as authorized by title III of the U.S.-
China Relations Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 6911 et seq.), $2,000,000, 
including not more than $3,000 for representation expenses, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017.

      United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States-China Economic and 
Security Review Commission, as authorized by section 1238 of the Floyd 
D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (22 
U.S.C. 7002), $3,500,000, including not more than $4,000 for 
representation expenses, to remain available until September 30, 2017:  
Provided, That the authorities, requirements, limitations, and 
conditions contained in the second through sixth provisos under this 
heading in the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117) 
shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2016 and shall apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading as if included in this Act.

                                TITLE II

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $1,143,614,000, of which up to 
$171,542,000 may remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading and under the 
heading ``Capital Investment Fund'' in this title may be made available 
to finance the construction (including architect and engineering 
services), purchase, or long-term lease of offices for use by the 
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), unless the 
USAID Administrator has identified such proposed use of funds in a 
report submitted to the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days 
prior to the obligation of funds for such purposes:  Provided further, 
That contracts or agreements entered into with funds appropriated under 
this heading may entail commitments for the expenditure of such funds 
through the following fiscal year:  Provided further, That the 
authority of sections 610 and 109 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
may be exercised by the Secretary of State to transfer funds 
appropriated to carry out chapter 1 of part I of such Act to 
``Operating Expenses'' in accordance with the provisions of those 
sections:  Provided further, That of the funds appropriated or made 
available under this heading, not to exceed $250,000 may be available 
for representation and entertainment expenses, of which not to exceed 
$5,000 may be available for entertainment expenses, and not to exceed 
$100,500 shall be for official residence expenses, for USAID during the 
current fiscal year.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses for overseas construction and related costs, 
and for the procurement and enhancement of information technology and 
related capital investments, pursuant to section 667 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $168,300,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That this amount is in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes:  Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be available subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $66,000,000, of which up to 
$9,900,000 may remain available until September 30, 2017, for the 
Office of Inspector General of the United States Agency for 
International Development.

                               TITLE III

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

    For necessary expenses to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other 
purposes, as follows:

                         global health programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapters 1 
and 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, for global 
health activities, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, $2,798,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, 
and which shall be apportioned directly to the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID):  Provided, That this amount shall be 
made available for training, equipment, and technical assistance to 
build the capacity of public health institutions and organizations in 
developing countries, and for such activities as: (1) child survival 
and maternal health programs; (2) immunization and oral rehydration 
programs; (3) other health, nutrition, water and sanitation programs 
which directly address the needs of mothers and children, and related 
education programs; (4) assistance for children displaced or orphaned 
by causes other than AIDS; (5) programs for the prevention, treatment, 
control of, and research on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, polio, malaria, and 
other infectious diseases including neglected tropical diseases, and 
for assistance to communities severely affected by HIV/AIDS, including 
children infected or affected by AIDS; (6) disaster preparedness 
training for health crises; and (7) family planning/reproductive 
health:  Provided further, That funds appropriated under this paragraph 
may be made available for a United States contribution to GAVI, the 
Vaccine Alliance:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available in this Act nor any unobligated balances from prior 
appropriations Acts may be made available to any organization or 
program which, as determined by the President of the United States, 
supports or participates in the management of a program of coercive 
abortion or involuntary sterilization:  Provided further, That any 
determination made under the previous proviso must be made not later 
than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and must be 
accompanied by the evidence and criteria utilized to make the 
determination:  Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
under this Act may be used to pay for the performance of abortion as a 
method of family planning or to motivate or coerce any person to 
practice abortions:  Provided further, That nothing in this paragraph 
shall be construed to alter any existing statutory prohibitions against 
abortion under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961:  
Provided further, That none of the funds made available under this Act 
may be used to lobby for or against abortion:  Provided further, That 
in order to reduce reliance on abortion in developing nations, funds 
shall be available only to voluntary family planning projects which 
offer, either directly or through referral to, or information about 
access to, a broad range of family planning methods and services, and 
that any such voluntary family planning project shall meet the 
following requirements: (1) service providers or referral agents in the 
project shall not implement or be subject to quotas, or other numerical 
targets, of total number of births, number of family planning 
acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of family planning (this 
provision shall not be construed to include the use of quantitative 
estimates or indicators for budgeting and planning purposes); (2) the 
project shall not include payment of incentives, bribes, gratuities, or 
financial reward to: (A) an individual in exchange for becoming a 
family planning acceptor; or (B) program personnel for achieving a 
numerical target or quota of total number of births, number of family 
planning acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of family 
planning; (3) the project shall not deny any right or benefit, 
including the right of access to participate in any program of general 
welfare or the right of access to health care, as a consequence of any 
individual's decision not to accept family planning services; (4) the 
project shall provide family planning acceptors comprehensible 
information on the health benefits and risks of the method chosen, 
including those conditions that might render the use of the method 
inadvisable and those adverse side effects known to be consequent to 
the use of the method; and (5) the project shall ensure that 
experimental contraceptive drugs and devices and medical procedures are 
provided only in the context of a scientific study in which 
participants are advised of potential risks and benefits; and, not less 
than 60 days after the date on which the USAID Administrator determines 
that there has been a violation of the requirements contained in 
paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (5) of this proviso, or a pattern or 
practice of violations of the requirements contained in paragraph (4) 
of this proviso, the Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a report containing a description of such violation and 
the corrective action taken by the Agency:  Provided further, That in 
awarding grants for natural family planning under section 104 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no applicant shall be discriminated 
against because of such applicant's religious or conscientious 
commitment to offer only natural family planning; and, additionally, 
all such applicants shall comply with the requirements of the previous 
proviso:  Provided further, That for purposes of this or any other Act 
authorizing or appropriating funds for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs, the term ``motivate'', as it relates 
to family planning assistance, shall not be construed to prohibit the 
provision, consistent with local law, of information or counseling 
about all pregnancy options:  Provided further, That information 
provided about the use of condoms as part of projects or activities 
that are funded from amounts appropriated by this Act shall be 
medically accurate and shall include the public health benefits and 
failure rates of such use.
    In addition, for necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the prevention, treatment, and 
control of, and research on, HIV/AIDS, $5,670,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020, which shall be apportioned directly 
to the Department of State:  Provided, That funds appropriated under 
this paragraph may be made available, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, except for the United States Leadership Against HIV/
AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-25), as 
amended, for a United States contribution to the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund), and shall be expended at 
the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and 
activities:  Provided further, That the amount of such contribution 
should be $1,350,000,000:  Provided further, That amounts specified for 
such a contribution in this Act or in the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J 
of Public Law 113-235) may be made available notwithstanding section 
202(d)(4)(A)(i) of Public Law 108-25:  Provided further, That up to 5 
percent of the aggregate amount of funds made available to the Global 
Fund in fiscal year 2016 may be made available to USAID for technical 
assistance related to the activities of the Global Fund:  Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this paragraph, up to 
$17,000,000 may be made available, in addition to amounts otherwise 
available for such purposes, for administrative expenses of the Office 
of the United States Global AIDS Coordinator.

                         development assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103, 
105, 106, 214, and sections 251 through 255, and chapter 10 of part I 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $2,637,854,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017.

                   international disaster assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 491 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for international disaster 
relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance, $560,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                         transition initiatives

    For necessary expenses for international disaster rehabilitation 
and reconstruction assistance pursuant to section 491 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $47,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to support transition to democracy and long-term development 
for countries in crisis:  Provided, That such support may include 
assistance to develop, strengthen, or preserve democratic institutions 
and processes, revitalize basic infrastructure, and foster the peaceful 
resolution of conflict:  Provided further, That the USAID Administrator 
shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations at least 5 
days prior to beginning a new program of assistance:  Provided further, 
That if the Secretary of State determines that it is important to the 
national interest of the United States to provide transition assistance 
in excess of the amount appropriated under this heading, up to 
$15,000,000 of the funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the 
provisions of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used 
for purposes of this heading and under the authorities applicable to 
funds appropriated under this heading:  Provided further, That funds 
made available pursuant to the previous proviso shall be made available 
subject to prior consultation with the Committees on Appropriations.

                          complex crises fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 to support programs and activities to prevent or 
respond to emerging or unforeseen foreign challenges and complex crises 
overseas, $30,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That funds appropriated under this heading may be made available on 
such terms and conditions as are appropriate and necessary for the 
purposes of preventing or responding to such challenges and crises, 
except that no funds shall be made available for lethal assistance or 
to respond to natural disasters:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, except sections 7007, 7008, and 7018 of 
this Act and section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961:  
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
used for administrative expenses, in addition to funds otherwise made 
available for such purposes, except that such expenses may not exceed 5 
percent of the funds appropriated under this heading:  Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, except that such notifications shall be transmitted at 
least 5 days prior to the obligation of funds.

                      development credit authority

    For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees provided by the 
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), as 
authorized by sections 256 and 635 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, up to $40,000,000 may be derived by transfer from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out part I of such Act and under the 
heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'':  Provided, 
That funds provided under this paragraph and funds provided as a gift 
that are used for purposes of this paragraph pursuant to section 635(d) 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be made available only for 
micro- and small enterprise programs, urban programs, and other 
programs which further the purposes of part I of such Act:  Provided 
further, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such direct 
and guaranteed loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended:  Provided further, That 
funds made available by this paragraph may be used for the cost of 
modifying any such guaranteed loans under this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs, and funds used for such costs shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided further, That the provisions of section 107A(d) (relating to 
general provisions applicable to the Development Credit Authority) of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as contained in section 306 of H.R. 
1486 as reported by the House Committee on International Relations on 
May 9, 1997, shall be applicable to direct loans and loan guarantees 
provided under this heading, except that the principal amount of loans 
made or guaranteed under this heading with respect to any single 
country shall not exceed $300,000,000:  Provided further, That these 
funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any portion of 
which is to be guaranteed, of up to $1,500,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out credit 
programs administered by USAID, $8,120,000, which may be transferred 
to, and merged with, funds made available under the heading ``Operating 
Expenses'' in title II of this Act:  Provided, That funds made 
available under this heading shall remain available until September 30, 
2018.

                         economic support fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $1,991,070,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017.

                             democracy fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for the promotion of democracy globally, 
$140,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

            assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, the FREEDOM Support Act (Public Law 102-511), 
and the Support for Eastern European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 
(Public Law 101-179), $443,061,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2017, which shall be available, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, except section 7070 of this Act, for assistance and related 
programs for countries identified in section 3 of Public Law 102-511 
and section 3(c) of Public Law 101-179, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes:  Provided, That funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Global Health Programs'' for assistance for 
such countries shall be administered in accordance with the 
responsibilities of the coordinator designated pursuant to section 102 
of Public Law 102-511 and section 601 of Public Law 101-179:  Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered 
to be economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained 
in that Act for the use of economic assistance.

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For necessary expenses not otherwise provided for, to enable the 
Secretary of State to carry out the provisions of section 2(a) and (b) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, and other 
activities to meet refugee and migration needs; salaries and expenses 
of personnel and dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 
1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of title 
5, United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, $931,886,000, to remain available until expended, of which not 
less than $35,000,000 shall be made available to respond to small-scale 
emergency humanitarian requirements, and $10,000,000 shall be made 
available for refugees resettling in Israel.

     united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 2601(c)), $50,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Independent Agencies

                              peace corps

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), including the purchase of not to 
exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for 
use outside of the United States, $379,500,000, of which $5,150,000 is 
for the Office of Inspector General, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That the Director of the Peace Corps may 
transfer to the Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account, as authorized by 
section 16 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2515), an amount not to 
exceed $5,000,000:  Provided further, That funds transferred pursuant 
to the previous proviso may not be derived from amounts made available 
for Peace Corps overseas operations:  Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $104,000 may be 
available for representation expenses, of which not to exceed $4,000 
may be made available for entertainment expenses:  Provided further, 
That any decision to open, close, significantly reduce, or suspend a 
domestic or overseas office or country program shall be subject to 
prior consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, 
the Committees on Appropriations, except that prior consultation and 
regular notification procedures may be waived when there is a 
substantial security risk to volunteers or other Peace Corps personnel, 
pursuant to section 7015(e) of this Act:  Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be used to pay for 
abortions:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the previous 
proviso, section 614 of division E of Public Law 113-76 shall apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading.

                    millennium challenge corporation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) (MCA), 
$901,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading, up to $105,000,000 may be 
available for administrative expenses of the Millennium Challenge 
Corporation (the Corporation):  Provided further, That up to 5 percent 
of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made available to 
carry out the purposes of section 616 of the MCA for fiscal year 2016:  
Provided further, That section 605(e) of the MCA shall apply to funds 
appropriated under this heading:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available for a Millennium 
Challenge Compact entered into pursuant to section 609 of the MCA only 
if such Compact obligates, or contains a commitment to obligate subject 
to the availability of funds and the mutual agreement of the parties to 
the Compact to proceed, the entire amount of the United States 
Government funding anticipated for the duration of the Compact:  
Provided further, That the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations not later than 15 days 
prior to commencing negotiations for any country compact or threshold 
country program; signing any such compact or threshold program; or 
terminating or suspending any such compact or threshold program:  
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading by this 
Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs that are available to 
implement section 609(g) of the MCA shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided 
further, That no country should be eligible for a threshold program 
after such country has completed a country compact:  Provided further, 
That any funds that are deobligated from a Millennium Challenge Compact 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations prior to re-obligation:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 606(a)(2) of the MCA, a country shall be a 
candidate country for purposes of eligibility for assistance for the 
fiscal year if the country has a per capita income equal to or below 
the World Bank's lower middle income country threshold for the fiscal 
year and is among the 75 lowest per capita income countries as 
identified by the World Bank; and the country meets the requirements of 
section 606(a)(1)(B) of the MCA:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 606(b)(1) of the MCA, in addition to countries 
described in the preceding proviso, a country shall be a candidate 
country for purposes of eligibility for assistance for the fiscal year 
if the country has a per capita income equal to or below the World 
Bank's lower middle income country threshold for the fiscal year and is 
not among the 75 lowest per capita income countries as identified by 
the World Bank; and the country meets the requirements of section 
606(a)(1)(B) of the MCA:  Provided further, That any Millennium 
Challenge Corporation candidate country under section 606 of the MCA 
with a per capita income that changes in the fiscal year such that the 
country would be reclassified from a low income country to a lower 
middle income country or from a lower middle income country to a low 
income country shall retain its candidacy status in its former income 
classification for the fiscal year and the 2 subsequent fiscal years:  
Provided further, That in this fiscal year and hereafter, publication 
in the Federal Register of a notice of availability of a copy of a 
Compact on the Millennium Challenge Corporation Web site shall be 
deemed to satisfy the requirements of section 610(b)(2) of the MCA for 
such Compact:  Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
by this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be available for 
a threshold program in a country that is not currently a candidate 
country:  Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not to exceed $100,000 may be available for representation and 
entertainment expenses, of which not to exceed $5,000 may be available 
for entertainment expenses.

                       inter-american foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the functions of the Inter-
American Foundation in accordance with the provisions of section 401 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, $22,500,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not to exceed $2,000 may be available for 
representation expenses.

              united states african development foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out title V of the International 
Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533), 
$30,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, of which not 
to exceed $2,000 may be available for representation expenses:  
Provided, That funds made available to grantees may be invested pending 
expenditure for project purposes when authorized by the Board of 
Directors of the United States African Development Foundation (USADF):  
Provided further, That interest earned shall be used only for the 
purposes for which the grant was made:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) of the African Development Foundation 
Act, in exceptional circumstances the Board of Directors of the USADF 
may waive the $250,000 limitation contained in that section with 
respect to a project and a project may exceed the limitation by up to 
10 percent if the increase is due solely to foreign currency 
fluctuation:  Provided further, That the USADF shall submit a report to 
the Committees on Appropriations after each time such waiver authority 
is exercised:  Provided further, That the USADF may make rent or lease 
payments in advance from appropriations available for such purpose for 
offices, buildings, grounds, and quarters in Africa as may be necessary 
to carry out its functions:  Provided further, That the USADF may 
maintain bank accounts outside the United States Treasury and retain 
any interest earned on such accounts, in furtherance of the purposes of 
the African Foundation Development Act:  Provided further, That the 
USADF may not withdraw any appropriation from the Treasury prior to the 
need of spending such funds for program purposes.

                       Department of the Treasury

               international affairs technical assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 129 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $23,500,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018, which shall be available notwithstanding any 
other provision of law.

                                TITLE IV

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $735,701,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That the provision of assistance by any 
other United States Government department or agency which is comparable 
to assistance that may be made available under this heading, but which 
is provided under any other provision of law, should be provided only 
with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and in accordance with 
the provisions of sections 481(b) and 622(c) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961:  Provided further, That the Department of State may use 
the authority of section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
without regard to its restrictions, to receive excess property from an 
agency of the United States Government for the purpose of providing 
such property to a foreign country or international organization under 
chapter 8 of part I of that Act, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That 
section 482(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading, except that any funds made 
available notwithstanding such section shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, 
demining and related programs and activities, $474,187,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017, to carry out the provisions of 
chapter 8 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for anti-
terrorism assistance, chapter 9 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, section 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act, section 23 of the 
Arms Export Control Act, or the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
demining activities, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, the 
destruction of small arms, and related activities, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, including activities implemented through 
nongovernmental and international organizations, and section 301 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for a voluntary contribution to the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and for a United States 
contribution to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Preparatory 
Commission:  Provided, That for the clearance of unexploded ordnance, 
the Secretary of State should prioritize those areas where such 
ordnance was caused by the United States:  Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading for the Nonproliferation and 
Disarmament Fund shall be available notwithstanding any other provision 
of law and subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations, to 
promote bilateral and multilateral activities relating to 
nonproliferation, disarmament, and weapons destruction, and shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That such funds may 
also be used for such countries other than the independent states of 
the former Soviet Union and international organizations when it is in 
the national security interest of the United States to do so:  Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for the IAEA unless the Secretary of State determines that 
Israel is being denied its right to participate in the activities of 
that Agency:  Provided further, That funds made available for 
conventional weapons destruction programs, including demining and 
related activities, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, may be used for administrative expenses related to the 
operation and management of such programs and activities.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $166,700,000:  Provided, That 
funds appropriated under this heading may be used, notwithstanding 
section 660 of such Act, to provide assistance to enhance the capacity 
of foreign civilian security forces, including gendarmes, to 
participate in peacekeeping operations:  Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $35,000,000 shall 
be made available for a United States contribution to the Multinational 
Force and Observers mission in the Sinai:  Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated except 
as provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

             international military education and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $107,587,000, of which up to 
$4,000,000 may remain available until September 30, 2017, and may only 
be provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided, That the civilian personnel 
for whom military education and training may be provided under this 
heading may include civilians who are not members of a government whose 
participation would contribute to improved civil-military relations, 
civilian control of the military, or respect for human rights:  
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
not to exceed $55,000 may be available for entertainment expenses.

                   foreign military financing program

    For necessary expenses for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$4,543,934,000:  Provided, That to expedite the provision of assistance 
to foreign countries and international organizations, the Secretary of 
State, following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations and 
subject to the regular notification procedures of such Committees, may 
use the funds appropriated under this heading to procure defense 
articles and services to enhance the capacity of foreign security 
forces:  Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $3,100,000,000 shall be available for grants 
only for Israel, and funds are available for assistance for Jordan and 
Egypt subject to section 7041 of this Act:  Provided further, That the 
funds appropriated under this heading for assistance for Israel shall 
be disbursed within 30 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided 
further, That to the extent that the Government of Israel requests that 
funds be used for such purposes, grants made available for Israel under 
this heading shall, as agreed by the United States and Israel, be 
available for advanced weapons systems, of which not less than 
$815,300,000 shall be available for the procurement in Israel of 
defense articles and defense services, including research and 
development:  Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
under this heading shall be made available to support or continue any 
program initially funded under the authority of section 1206 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 
109-163; 119 Stat. 3456), or section 2282 of title 10, United States 
Code, unless the Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary 
of Defense, has justified such program to the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available under this heading shall be nonrepayable notwithstanding 
any requirement in section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act:  Provided 
further, That funds made available under this heading shall be 
obligated upon apportionment in accordance with paragraph (5)(C) of 
section 1501(a) of title 31, United States Code.
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurement has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurement may be financed with such funds:  
Provided, That all country and funding level increases in allocations 
shall be submitted through the regular notification procedures of 
section 7015 of this Act:  Provided further, That funds made available 
under this heading may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, for demining, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related 
activities, and may include activities implemented through 
nongovernmental and international organizations:  Provided further, 
That only those countries for which assistance was justified for the 
``Foreign Military Sales Financing Program'' in the fiscal year 1989 
congressional presentation for security assistance programs may utilize 
funds made available under this heading for procurement of defense 
articles, defense services, or design and construction services that 
are not sold by the United States Government under the Arms Export 
Control Act:  Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely 
payment for defense articles and services:  Provided further, That not 
more than $63,945,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may 
be obligated for necessary expenses, including the purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only for use outside of the 
United States, for the general costs of administering military 
assistance and sales, except that this limitation may be exceeded only 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That of the funds made available 
under this heading for general costs of administering military 
assistance and sales, not to exceed $4,000 may be available for 
entertainment expenses and not to exceed $130,000 may be available for 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That not more than 
$904,000,000 of funds realized pursuant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the 
Arms Export Control Act may be obligated for expenses incurred by the 
Department of Defense during fiscal year 2016 pursuant to section 43(b) 
of the Arms Export Control Act, except that this limitation may be 
exceeded only through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                                TITLE V

                        MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                international organizations and programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 301 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of section 2 of the United 
Nations Environment Program Participation Act of 1973, $339,000,000:  
Provided, That section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
shall not apply to contributions to the United Nations Democracy Fund.

                  International Financial Institutions

                      global environment facility

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development as trustee for the Global Environment Facility by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $84,132,000, to remain available until 
expended.

       contribution to the international development association

    For payment to the International Development Association by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $645,300,000, to remain available until 
expended.

     contribution to the international bank for reconstruction and 
                              development

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury for the United States 
share of the paid-in portion of the increases in capital stock, 
$96,460,000, to remain available until expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development may subscribe without fiscal year 
limitation to the callable capital portion of the United States share 
of increases in capital stock in an amount not to exceed 
$2,928,990,899.

               contribution to the clean technology fund

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development as trustee for the Clean Technology Fund by the Secretary 
of the Treasury, $85,340,000, to remain available until expended.

               contribution to the strategic climate fund

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development as trustee for the Strategic Climate Fund by the Secretary 
of the Treasury, $29,810,000, to remain available until expended.

          contribution to the inter-american development bank

    For payment to the Inter-American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of 
the increase in capital stock, $51,010,000, to remain available until 
expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank 
may subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $4,098,794,833.

               contribution to the asian development bank

    For payment to the Asian Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of increase 
in capital stock, $5,608,000, to remain available until expended.

               contribution to the asian development fund

    For payment to the Asian Development Bank's Asian Development Fund 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $83,043,000, to remain available 
until expended.

              contribution to the african development bank

    For payment to the African Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of the 
increase in capital stock, $17,059,000, to remain available until 
expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the African Development Bank may 
subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $507,860,808.

              contribution to the african development fund

    For payment to the African Development Fund by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, $113,750,000, to remain available until expended.

  contribution to the international fund for agricultural development

    For payment to the International Fund for Agricultural Development 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $15,965,000, to remain available 
until expended.

              global agriculture and food security program

    For payment to the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program by 
the Secretary of the Treasury, $21,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

          contribution to the north american development bank

    For payment to the North American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of 
the increase in capital stock, $22,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The Secretary of the Treasury may subscribe without fiscal year 
limitation to the callable capital portion of the United States share 
of such capital stock in an amount not to exceed $255,000,000.

                                TITLE VI

                    EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                Export-Import Bank of the United States

                           inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $6,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

                            program account

    The Export-Import Bank (the Bank) of the United States is 
authorized to make such expenditures within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to such corporation, and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program for the current fiscal year for such corporation:  Provided, 
That none of the funds available during the current fiscal year may be 
used to make expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of 
nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology to any country, other than a 
nuclear-weapon state as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act, that has detonated a nuclear 
explosive after the date of the enactment of this Act:  Provided 
further, That not less than 20 percent of the aggregate loan, 
guarantee, and insurance authority available to the Bank under this Act 
should be used to finance exports directly by small business concerns 
(as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act):  Provided 
further, That not less than 10 percent of the aggregate loan, 
guarantee, and insurance authority available to the Bank under this Act 
should be used for renewable energy technologies or energy efficiency 
technologies:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 1(c) of 
Public Law 103-428, as amended, sections 1(a) and (b) of Public Law 
103-428 shall remain in effect through October 1, 2016.

                        administrative expenses

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs, including hire of passenger motor vehicles 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, and not to exceed $30,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses for members of the Board of Directors, not to 
exceed $106,250,000:  Provided, That the Export-Import Bank (the Bank) 
may accept, and use, payment or services provided by transaction 
participants for legal, financial, or technical services in connection 
with any transaction for which an application for a loan, guarantee or 
insurance commitment has been made:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 117 of the Export Enhancement 
Act of 1992, subsection (a) thereof shall remain in effect until 
September 30, 2016:  Provided further, That the Bank shall charge fees 
for necessary expenses (including special services performed on a 
contract or fee basis, but not including other personal services) in 
connection with the collection of moneys owed the Bank, repossession or 
sale of pledged collateral or other assets acquired by the Bank in 
satisfaction of moneys owed the Bank, or the investigation or appraisal 
of any property, or the evaluation of the legal, financial, or 
technical aspects of any transaction for which an application for a 
loan, guarantee, or insurance commitment has been made, or systems 
infrastructure directly supporting transactions:  Provided further, 
That in addition to other funds appropriated for administrative 
expenses, such fees shall be credited to this account for such 
purposes, to remain available until expended.

                           receipts collected

    Receipts collected pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, 
as amended, and the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, as amended, in 
an amount not to exceed the amount appropriated herein, shall be 
credited as offsetting collections to this account:  Provided, That the 
sums herein appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced on a 
dollar-for-dollar basis by such offsetting collections so as to result 
in a final fiscal year appropriation from the General Fund estimated at 
$0:  Provided further, That amounts collected in fiscal year 2016 in 
excess of obligations, up to $10,000,000 shall become available on 
September 1, 2016, and shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

                Overseas Private Investment Corporation

                           noncredit account

    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to make, 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by section 9104 
of title 31, United States Code, such expenditures and commitments 
within the limits of funds available to it and in accordance with law 
as may be necessary:  Provided, That the amount available for 
administrative expenses to carry out the credit and insurance programs 
(including an amount for official reception and representation expenses 
which shall not exceed $35,000) shall not exceed $62,787,000:  Provided 
further, That project-specific transaction costs, including direct and 
indirect costs incurred in claims settlements, and other direct costs 
associated with services provided to specific investors or potential 
investors pursuant to section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, shall not be considered administrative expenses for the purposes 
of this heading.

                            program account

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, $20,000,000, as 
authorized by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, to be 
derived by transfer from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
Noncredit Account:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That such sums 
shall be available for direct loan obligations and loan guaranty 
commitments incurred or made during fiscal years 2016, 2017, and 2018:  
Provided further, That funds so obligated in fiscal year 2016 remain 
available for disbursement through 2024; funds obligated in fiscal year 
2017 remain available for disbursement through 2025; and funds 
obligated in fiscal year 2018 remain available for disbursement through 
2026:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to 
undertake any program authorized by title IV of chapter 2 of part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 in Iraq:  Provided further, That 
funds made available pursuant to the authority of the previous proviso 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    In addition, such sums as may be necessary for administrative 
expenses to carry out the credit program may be derived from amounts 
available for administrative expenses to carry out the credit and 
insurance programs in the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
Noncredit Account and merged with said account.

                      trade and development agency

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $60,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not more than $5,000 may be available for 
representation and entertainment expenses.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      allowances and differentials

    Sec. 7001.  Funds appropriated under title I of this Act shall be 
available, except as otherwise provided, for allowances and 
differentials as authorized by subchapter 59 of title 5, United States 
Code; for services as authorized by section 3109 of such title and for 
hire of passenger transportation pursuant to section 1343(b) of title 
31, United States Code.

                      unobligated balances report

    Sec. 7002.  Any department or agency of the United States 
Government to which funds are appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations a 
quarterly accounting of cumulative unobligated balances and obligated, 
but unexpended, balances by program, project, and activity, and 
Treasury Account Fund Symbol of all funds received by such department 
or agency in fiscal year 2016 or any previous fiscal year, 
disaggregated by fiscal year:  Provided, That the report required by 
this section should specify by account the amount of funds obligated 
pursuant to bilateral agreements which have not been further sub-
obligated.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 7003.  The expenditure of any appropriation under title I of 
this Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of 
public record and available for public inspection, except where 
otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing Executive 
Order issued pursuant to existing law.

                         diplomatic facilities

    Sec. 7004. (a) Capital Security Cost Sharing.--Of funds provided 
under title I of this Act, except as provided in subsection (b), a 
project to construct a diplomatic facility of the United States may not 
include office space or other accommodations for an employee of a 
Federal agency or department if the Secretary of State determines that 
such department or agency has not provided to the Department of State 
the full amount of funding required by subsection (e) of section 604 of 
the Secure Embassy Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (as 
enacted into law by section 1000(a)(7) of Public Law 106-113 and 
contained in appendix G of that Act; 113 Stat. 1501A-453), as amended 
by section 629 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2005.
    (b) Exception.--Notwithstanding the prohibition in subsection (a), 
a project to construct a diplomatic facility of the United States may 
include office space or other accommodations for members of the United 
States Marine Corps.
    (c) New Diplomatic Facilities.--For the purposes of calculating the 
fiscal year 2016 costs of providing new United States diplomatic 
facilities in accordance with section 604(e) of the Secure Embassy 
Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C. 4865 note), 
the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, shall determine the annual program level and 
agency shares in a manner that is proportional to the Department of 
State's contribution for this purpose.
    (d) Consultation and Notification Requirements.--Funds appropriated 
by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs, which may be made 
available for the acquisition of property or award of construction 
contracts for overseas diplomatic facilities during fiscal year 2016, 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided, That any such notification for a new diplomatic facility 
justified to the Committees on Appropriations in Appendix I of the 
Congressional Budget Justification, Department of State, Diplomatic 
Engagement, Fiscal Year 2016, or not previously justified to such 
Committees, shall include confirmation that the Department of State has 
completed the requisite value engineering studies required pursuant to 
OMB Circular A-131, Value Engineering December 31, 2013 and the Bureau 
of Overseas Building Operations Policy and Procedure Directive, P&PD, 
PE/DE 03; Value Engineering, May 26, 2004.
    (e) Expeditionary, Interim, and Temporary Facilities Abroad.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' may be made 
        available to address security vulnerabilities at expeditionary, 
        interim, and temporary facilities abroad, including physical 
        security upgrades and local guard staffing, except that the 
        amount of funds made available for such purposes from this Act 
        and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
        State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be a 
        minimum of $25,000,000:  Provided, That the uses of such funds 
        should be the responsibility of the Assistant Secretary of 
        State for the Bureau of Diplomatic Security and Foreign 
        Missions, in consultation with the Director of the Bureau of 
        Overseas Buildings Operations:  Provided further, That such 
        funds shall be subject to prior consultation with the 
        Committees on Appropriations.
            (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
        opening, closure, or any significant modification to an 
        expeditionary, interim, or temporary diplomatic facility shall 
        be subject to prior consultation with the appropriate 
        congressional committees and the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, except that 
        such consultation and notification may be waived if there is a 
        security risk to personnel.
            (3) Not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the 
        Department of State shall document standard operating 
        procedures and best practices associated with the delivery, 
        construction, and protection of temporary structures in high 
        threat and conflict environments:  Provided, That the Secretary 
        of State shall notify the Committees on Appropriations after 
        completing such documentation.
    (f) Foreign Affairs Security Training Center.--
            (1) None of the funds made available by this Act and prior 
        Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs may be obligated for design, 
        site preparation or construction of a Foreign Affairs Security 
        Training Center (FASTC) at Fort Pickett, Virginia, until each 
        of the following occurs:
                    (A) The Secretary of State submits to the 
                appropriate congressional committees, the Comptroller 
                General of the United States, and the Director of the 
                Office of Management and Budget a comprehensive cost-
                benefit analysis of the construction of FASTC at Fort 
                Pickett, Virginia that includes, at a minimum, the 
                following: a life-cycle cost estimate of construction, 
                maintenance, and sustainment of FASTC; an estimate of 
                the effect of FASTC on the total cost associated with 
                conducting security training for Department of State 
                personnel and dependents, as appropriate; and a 
                detailed analysis that quantifies the impact of FASTC 
                on the training capacity and operational effectiveness 
                of Bureau of Diplomatic Security, Department of State;
                    (B) The Comptroller General submits an assessment 
                of the analysis required by subparagraph (A) to the 
                appropriate congressional committees on the 
                methodology, analysis and conclusions of the report 
                submitted by the Secretary of State; and
                    (C) The Secretary of State, in consultation with 
                the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, 
                reviews the report required under subparagraph (A) and 
                the assessment required under subparagraph (B), and 
                certifies to the appropriate congressional committees 
                that the construction of FASTC at Fort Pickett, 
                Virginia would provide efficiencies and increases in 
                the training capacity and operational effectiveness of 
                the Bureau of Diplomatic Security commensurate with the 
                estimated life-cycle costs of constructing, 
                maintaining, and sustaining FASTC.
            (2) Not later than 180 days after the enactment of this 
        Act, the Secretary of State shall submit the report required 
        subparagraph (A), and not later than 180 days after receiving 
        such report, the Comptroller General shall submit the 
        assessment required under subparagraph (B).
    (g) Compliance With the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 
by the People's Republic of China.--Not later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall determine and 
report to the appropriate congressional committees the extent to which 
the Government of the People's Republic of China (PRC) has taken action 
to interfere with the repair and renovation of United States diplomatic 
facilities in the PRC during the past calendar year, including any 
action taken in contravention of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic 
Relations, 1961.
    (h) Transfer Authority.--Funds appropriated under the heading 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', including for Worldwide Security 
Protection, and under the heading ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
Maintenance'' in titles I and VIII of this Act may be transferred to, 
and merged with, funds appropriated by such titles under such headings 
if the Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations that to do so is necessary to implement the 
recommendations of the Benghazi Accountability Review Board, or to 
prevent or respond to security situations and requirements, following 
consultation with, and subject to the regular notification procedures 
of, such Committees:  Provided, That such transfer authority is in 
addition to any transfer authority otherwise available under any other 
provision of law.

                           personnel actions

    Sec. 7005.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded 
under title I of this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in 
response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed 
within the total budgetary resources available under title I to such 
department or agency:  Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act:  Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this 
section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 7015 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         local guard contracts

    Sec. 7006.  In evaluating proposals for local guard contracts, the 
Secretary of State shall award contracts in accordance with section 136 
of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 
(22 U.S.C. 4864), except that the Secretary may grant authorization to 
award such contracts on the basis of best value as determined by a 
cost-technical tradeoff analysis (as described in Federal Acquisition 
Regulation part 15.101), notwithstanding subsection (c)(3) of such 
section:  Provided, That the authority in this section shall apply to 
any options for renewal that may be exercised under such contracts that 
are awarded during the current fiscal year.

        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries

    Sec. 7007.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance or reparations 
for the governments of Cuba, North Korea, Iran, or Syria:  Provided, 
That for purposes of this section, the prohibition on obligations or 
expenditures shall include direct loans, credits, insurance, and 
guarantees of the Export-Import Bank or its agents.

                              coups d'etat

    Sec. 7008.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance to the 
government of any country whose duly elected head of government is 
deposed by military coup d'etat or decree or, after the date of 
enactment of this Act, a coup d'etat or decree in which the military 
plays a decisive role:  Provided, That assistance may be resumed to 
such government if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
appropriate congressional committees that subsequent to the termination 
of assistance a democratically elected government has taken office:  
Provided further, That the provisions of this section shall not apply 
to assistance to promote democratic elections or public participation 
in democratic processes:  Provided further, That funds made available 
pursuant to the previous provisos shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 7009. (a) Department of State and Broadcasting Board of 
Governors.--
            (1) Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
        available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
        State under title I of this Act may be transferred between, and 
        merged with, such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
        except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased 
        by more than 10 percent by any such transfers, and no such 
        transfer may be made to increase the appropriation under the 
        heading ``Representation Expenses''.
            (2) Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
        available for the current fiscal year for the Broadcasting 
        Board of Governors under title I of this Act may be transferred 
        between, and merged with, such appropriations, but no such 
        appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall 
        be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers.
            (3) Any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated 
        as a reprogramming of funds under subsections (a) and (b) of 
        section 7015 of this Act and shall not be available for 
        obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the 
        procedures set forth in that section.
    (b) Export Financing Transfer Authorities.--Not to exceed 5 percent 
of any appropriation other than for administrative expenses made 
available for fiscal year 2016, for programs under title VI of this Act 
may be transferred between such appropriations for use for any of the 
purposes, programs, and activities for which the funds in such 
receiving account may be used, but no such appropriation, except as 
otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 25 
percent by any such transfer:  Provided, That the exercise of such 
authority shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Limitation on Transfers Between Agencies.--
            (1) None of the funds made available under titles II 
        through V of this Act may be transferred to any department, 
        agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government, 
        except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer authority 
        provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
            (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in addition to transfers 
        made by, or authorized elsewhere in, this Act, funds 
        appropriated by this Act to carry out the purposes of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be allocated or transferred 
        to agencies of the United States Government pursuant to the 
        provisions of sections 109, 610, and 632 of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961.
            (3) Any agreement entered into by the United States Agency 
        for International Development (USAID) or the Department of 
        State with any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
        United States Government pursuant to section 632(b) of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess of $1,000,000 
        and any agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) of such Act, 
        with funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs under the headings ``Global Health 
        Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
        Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' 
        shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations:  Provided, That the requirement 
        in the previous sentence shall not apply to agreements entered 
        into between USAID and the Department of State.
    (d) Transfers Between Accounts.--None of the funds made available 
under titles II through V of this Act may be obligated under an 
appropriation account to which such funds were not appropriated, except 
for transfers specifically provided for in this Act, unless the 
President, not less than 5 days prior to the exercise of any authority 
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Audit of Inter-agency Transfers.--Any agreement for the 
transfer or allocation of funds appropriated by this Act, or prior 
Acts, entered into between the Department of State or USAID and another 
agency of the United States Government under the authority of section 
632(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or any comparable 
provision of law, shall expressly provide that the Inspector General 
(IG) for the agency receiving the transfer or allocation of such funds, 
or other entity with audit responsibility if the receiving agency does 
not have an IG, shall perform periodic program and financial audits of 
the use of such funds:  Provided, That such audits shall be transmitted 
to the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That funds 
transferred under such authority may be made available for the cost of 
such audits.

                   prohibition on first-class travel

    Sec. 7010.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for first-class travel by employees of agencies funded by this Act 
in contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, 
Code of Federal Regulations.

                         availability of funds

    Sec. 7011.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall remain available for obligation after the expiration of the 
current fiscal year unless expressly so provided in this Act:  
Provided, That funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1 and 8 
of part I, section 661, chapters 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9 of part II of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, section 23 of the Arms Export Control 
Act, and funds provided under the headings ``Development Credit 
Authority'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' 
shall remain available for an additional 4 years from the date on which 
the availability of such funds would otherwise have expired, if such 
funds are initially obligated before the expiration of their respective 
periods of availability contained in this Act:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any funds made 
available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part 
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which are allocated or 
obligated for cash disbursements in order to address balance of 
payments or economic policy reform objectives, shall remain available 
for an additional 4 years from the date on which the availability of 
such funds would otherwise have expired, if such funds are initially 
allocated or obligated before the expiration of their respective 
periods of availability contained in this Act:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary of State shall provide a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations at the beginning of each fiscal year, detailing by 
account and source year, the use of this authority during the previous 
fiscal year.

            limitation on assistance to countries in default

    Sec. 7012.  No part of any appropriation provided under titles III 
through VI in this Act shall be used to furnish assistance to the 
government of any country which is in default during a period in excess 
of 1 calendar year in payment to the United States of principal or 
interest on any loan made to the government of such country by the 
United States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated 
under this Act unless the President determines, following consultations 
with the Committees on Appropriations, that assistance for such country 
is in the national interest of the United States.

          prohibition on taxation of united states assistance

    Sec. 7013. (a) Prohibition on Taxation.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be made 
available to provide assistance for a foreign country under a new 
bilateral agreement governing the terms and conditions under which such 
assistance is to be provided unless such agreement includes a provision 
stating that assistance provided by the United States shall be exempt 
from taxation, or reimbursed, by the foreign government, and the 
Secretary of State shall expeditiously seek to negotiate amendments to 
existing bilateral agreements, as necessary, to conform with this 
requirement.
    (b) Reimbursement of Foreign Taxes.--An amount equivalent to 200 
percent of the total taxes assessed during fiscal year 2016 on funds 
appropriated by this Act by a foreign government or entity against 
United States assistance programs for which funds are appropriated by 
this Act, either directly or through grantees, contractors, and 
subcontractors shall be withheld from obligation from funds 
appropriated for assistance for fiscal year 2017 and allocated for the 
central government of such country and for the West Bank and Gaza 
program to the extent that the Secretary of State certifies and reports 
in writing to the Committees on Appropriations, not later than 
September 30, 2017, that such taxes have not been reimbursed to the 
Government of the United States.
    (c) De Minimis Exception.--Foreign taxes of a de minimis nature 
shall not be subject to the provisions of subsection (b).
    (d) Reprogramming of Funds.--Funds withheld from obligation for 
each country or entity pursuant to subsection (b) shall be reprogrammed 
for assistance for countries which do not assess taxes on United States 
assistance or which have an effective arrangement that is providing 
substantial reimbursement of such taxes, and that can reasonably 
accommodate such assistance in a programmatically responsible manner.
    (e) Determinations.--
            (1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any 
        country or entity if the Secretary of State reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that--
                    (A) such country or entity does not assess taxes on 
                United States assistance or has an effective 
                arrangement that is providing substantial reimbursement 
                of such taxes; or
                    (B) the foreign policy interests of the United 
                States outweigh the purpose of this section to ensure 
                that United States assistance is not subject to 
                taxation.
            (2) The Secretary of State shall consult with the 
        Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior to 
        exercising the authority of this subsection with regard to any 
        country or entity.
    (f) Implementation.--The Secretary of State shall issue rules, 
regulations, or policy guidance, as appropriate, to implement the 
prohibition against the taxation of assistance contained in this 
section.
    (g) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) the term ``bilateral agreement'' refers to a framework 
        bilateral agreement between the Government of the United States 
        and the government of the country receiving assistance that 
        describes the privileges and immunities applicable to United 
        States foreign assistance for such country generally, or an 
        individual agreement between the Government of the United 
        States and such government that describes, among other things, 
        the treatment for tax purposes that will be accorded the United 
        States assistance provided under that agreement; and
            (2) the term ``taxes and taxation'' shall include value 
        added taxes and customs duties but shall not include individual 
        income taxes assessed to local staff.
    (h) Report.--The Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads 
of other relevant departments or agencies, shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations, not later than 90 days after the 
enactment of this Act, detailing steps taken by such departments or 
agencies to comply with the requirements of this section.

                         reservations of funds

    Sec. 7014. (a) Reprogramming.--Funds appropriated under titles III 
through VI of this Act which are specifically designated may be 
reprogrammed for other programs within the same account notwithstanding 
the designation if compliance with the designation is made impossible 
by operation of any provision of this or any other Act:  Provided, That 
any such reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That 
assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be 
made available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) Extension of Availability.--In addition to the authority 
contained in subsection (a), the original period of availability of 
funds appropriated by this Act and administered by the Department of 
State or the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) 
that are specifically designated for particular programs or activities 
by this or any other Act may be extended for an additional fiscal year 
if the Secretary of State or the USAID Administrator, as appropriate, 
determines and reports promptly to the Committees on Appropriations 
that the termination of assistance to a country or a significant change 
in circumstances makes it unlikely that such designated funds can be 
obligated during the original period of availability:  Provided, That 
such designated funds that continue to be available for an additional 
fiscal year shall be obligated only for the purpose of such 
designation.
    (c) Other Acts.--Ceilings and specifically designated funding 
levels contained in this Act shall not be applicable to funds or 
authorities appropriated or otherwise made available by any subsequent 
Act unless such Act specifically so directs:  Provided, That 
specifically designated funding levels or minimum funding requirements 
contained in any other Act shall not be applicable to funds 
appropriated by this Act.

                       notification requirements

    Sec. 7015. (a) Reprogramming of Funds.--None of the funds made 
available in titles I and II of this Act, or in prior appropriations 
Acts to the agencies and departments funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2016, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees or of currency reflows or other offsetting 
collections, or made available by transfer, to the agencies and 
departments funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) closes or opens a mission or post;
            (6) creates, closes, reorganizes, or renames bureaus, 
        centers, or offices;
            (7) reorganizes programs or activities; or
            (8) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance 
of such reprogramming of funds:  Provided, That unless previously 
justified to the Committees on Appropriations, the requirements of this 
subsection shall apply to all obligations of funds appropriated under 
titles I and II of this Act for paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (6) of 
this subsection.
    (b) Limitation.--None of the funds provided under titles I and II 
of this Act, or provided under previous appropriations Acts to the 
agency or department funded under titles I and II of this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2016, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agency or department funded 
under title I of this Act, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure for activities, programs, or projects through a 
reprogramming of funds in excess of $1,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever 
is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings, including savings 
        from a reduction in personnel, which would result in a change 
        in existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by 
        Congress;
unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance 
of such reprogramming of funds.
    (c) Notification Requirement.--None of the funds made available by 
this Act under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', ``Development 
Assistance'', ``International Organizations and Programs'', ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', ``Peacekeeping 
Operations'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'', ``Millennium Challenge Corporation'', ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'', ``International Military Education and Training'', 
``Conflict Stabilization Operations'', and ``Peace Corps'', shall be 
available for obligation for activities, programs, projects, type of 
materiel assistance, countries, or other operations not justified or in 
excess of the amount justified to the Committees on Appropriations for 
obligation under any of these specific headings unless the Committees 
on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance:  Provided, That the 
President shall not enter into any commitment of funds appropriated for 
the purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act for the 
provision of major defense equipment, other than conventional 
ammunition, or other major defense items defined to be aircraft, ships, 
missiles, or combat vehicles, not previously justified to Congress or 
20 percent in excess of the quantities justified to Congress unless the 
Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such 
commitment:  Provided further, That requirements of this subsection or 
any similar provision of this or any other Act shall not apply to any 
reprogramming for an activity, program, or project for which funds are 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act of less than 10 
percent of the amount previously justified to Congress for obligation 
for such activity, program, or project for the current fiscal year.
    (d) Notification of Transfer of Funds.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, with the exception of funds transferred to, and 
merged with, funds appropriated under title I of this Act, funds 
transferred by the Department of Defense to the Department of State and 
the United States Agency for International Development for assistance 
for foreign countries and international organizations, and funds made 
available for programs previously authorized under section 1206 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 
109-163) or section 2282 of title 10, United States Code, shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (e) Waiver.--The requirements of this section or any similar 
provision of this Act or any other Act, including any prior Act 
requiring notification in accordance with the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, may be waived if 
failure to do so would pose a substantial risk to human health or 
welfare:  Provided, That in case of any such waiver, notification to 
the Committees on Appropriations shall be provided as early as 
practicable, but in no event later than 3 days after taking the action 
to which such notification requirement was applicable, in the context 
of the circumstances necessitating such waiver:  Provided further, That 
any notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall contain an 
explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    (f) Country Notification Requirements.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act shall be obligated 
or expended for assistance for Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bolivia, Burma, 
Cambodia, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, 
Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Rwanda, 
Serbia, Somalia, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela, Yemen, and Zimbabwe except as provided through the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                notification on excess defense equipment

    Sec. 7016.  Prior to providing excess Department of Defense 
articles in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations to the same extent and under the same conditions as 
other committees pursuant to subsection (f) of that section:  Provided, 
That before issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles 
under the Arms Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular 
notification procedures of such Committees if such defense articles are 
significant military equipment (as defined in section 47(9) of the Arms 
Export Control Act) or are valued (in terms of original acquisition 
cost) at $7,000,000 or more, or if notification is required elsewhere 
in this Act for the use of appropriated funds for specific countries 
that would receive such excess defense articles:  Provided further, 
That such Committees shall also be informed of the original acquisition 
cost of such defense articles.

limitation on availability of funds for international organizations and 
                                programs

    Sec. 7017.  Subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under titles I and III 
through V of this Act, which are returned or not made available for 
organizations and programs because of the implementation of section 
307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or section 7048(a) of this 
Act, shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That the requirement to withhold funds for programs in Burma 
under section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not 
apply to funds appropriated by this Act.

   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization

    Sec. 7018.  None of the funds made available to carry out part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortions as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or provide 
any financial incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None 
of the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any 
biomedical research which relates in whole or in part, to methods of, 
or the performance of, abortions or involuntary sterilization as a 
means of family planning. None of the funds made available to carry out 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
obligated or expended for any country or organization if the President 
certifies that the use of these funds by any such country or 
organization would violate any of the above provisions related to 
abortions and involuntary sterilizations.

                              allocations

    Sec. 7019. (a) Report Tables.--Funds provided by this Act shall be 
made available for programs and countries in the amounts specifically 
designated in the report accompanying this Act, including such amounts 
in the respective tables.
    (b) Limited Deviation Authority.--For the purposes of implementing 
this section and only with respect to the amounts for programs and 
countries specifically designated in the tables in the report 
accompanying this Act, the Secretary of State, the Administrator of the 
United States Agency for International Development, and the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors, as appropriate, may propose deviations 
to the amounts referenced in subsection (a), subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

               representation and entertainment expenses

    Sec. 7020. (a) Uses of Funds.--Each Federal department, agency, or 
entity funded in titles I or II of this Act, and the Department of the 
Treasury and independent agencies funded in titles III or VI of this 
Act, shall take steps to ensure that domestic and overseas 
representation and entertainment expenses further official agency 
business and United States foreign policy interests and are--
            (1) primarily for fostering relations outside of the 
        Executive Branch;
            (2) principally for meals and events of a protocol nature;
            (3) not for employee-only events; and
            (4) do not include activities that are substantially of a 
        recreational character.
    (b) Limitations.--None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act under the headings ``International Military 
Education and Training'' or ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for 
Informational Program activities or under the headings ``Global Health 
Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', and 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' may be obligated or 
expended to pay for--
            (1) alcoholic beverages; or
            (2) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
        substantially of a recreational character, including but not 
        limited to entrance fees at sporting events, theatrical and 
        musical productions, and amusement parks.

   prohibition on assistance to governments supporting international 
                               terrorism

    Sec. 7021. (a) Lethal Military Equipment Exports.--
            (1) Prohibition.--None of the funds appropriated or 
        otherwise made available by titles III through VI of this Act 
        may be made available to any foreign government which provides 
        lethal military equipment to a country the government of which 
        the Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees 
        on Appropriations supports international terrorism for purposes 
        of section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 as 
        continued in effect pursuant to the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act:  Provided, That the prohibition under this 
        section with respect to a foreign government shall terminate 12 
        months after the Secretary determines and reports to such 
        Committees that such government ceases to provide such military 
        equipment:  Provided further, That this section applies with 
        respect to lethal military equipment provided under a contract 
        entered into after October 1, 1997.
            (2) Determination.--Assistance restricted by paragraph (1) 
        or any other similar provision of law, may be furnished if the 
        President determines that to do so is important to the national 
        interests of the United States.
            (3) Report.--Whenever the President makes a determination 
        pursuant to paragraph (2), the President shall submit to the 
        Committees on Appropriations a report with respect to the 
        furnishing of such assistance, including a detailed explanation 
        of the assistance to be provided, the estimated dollar amount 
        of such assistance, and an explanation of how the assistance 
        furthers United States national interests.
    (b) Bilateral Assistance.--
            (1) Limitations.--Funds appropriated for bilateral 
        assistance in titles III through VI of this Act and funds 
        appropriated under any such title in prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs, shall not be made available to any 
        foreign government which the President determines--
                    (A) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any 
                individual or group which has committed an act of 
                international terrorism;
                    (B) otherwise supports international terrorism; or
                    (C) is controlled by an organization designated as 
                a terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act.
            (2) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) to a government if the President determines that 
        national security or humanitarian reasons justify such waiver:  
        Provided, That the President shall publish each such waiver in 
        the Federal Register and, at least 15 days before the waiver 
        takes effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of 
        the waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in 
        accordance with the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.

                       authorization requirements

    Sec. 7022.  Funds appropriated by this Act, except funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Trade and Development Agency'', may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672, 
section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, 
section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 
1994 and 1995 (Public Law 103-236), and section 504(a)(1) of the 
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).

              definition of program, project, and activity

    Sec. 7023.  For the purpose of titles II through VI of this Act 
``program, project, and activity'' shall be defined at the 
appropriations Act account level and shall include all appropriations 
and authorizations Acts funding directives, ceilings, and limitations 
with the exception that for the following accounts: ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', ``program, project, 
and activity'' shall also be considered to include country, regional, 
and central program level funding within each such account; and for the 
development assistance accounts of the United States Agency for 
International Development, ``program, project, and activity'' shall 
also be considered to include central, country, regional, and program 
level funding, either as--
            (1) justified to Congress; or
            (2) allocated by the Executive Branch in accordance with a 
        report, to be provided to the Committees on Appropriations 
        within 30 days of the enactment of this Act, as required by 
        section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

 authorities for the peace corps, inter-american foundation and united 
                 states african development foundation

    Sec. 7024.  Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions 
of this or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
authorizing or making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs, shall not be construed to 
prohibit activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps 
Act, the Inter-American Foundation Act or the African Development 
Foundation Act:  Provided, That prior to conducting activities in a 
country for which assistance is prohibited, the agency shall consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations and report to such Committees 
within 15 days of taking such action.

                commerce, trade and surplus commodities

    Sec. 7025. (a) World Markets.--None of the funds appropriated or 
made available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act for direct 
assistance and none of the funds otherwise made available to the 
Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
shall be obligated or expended to finance any loan, any assistance, or 
any other financial commitments for establishing or expanding 
production of any commodity for export by any country other than the 
United States, if the commodity is likely to be in surplus on world 
markets at the time the resulting productive capacity is expected to 
become operative and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to 
United States producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity:  
Provided, That such prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import 
Bank if in the judgment of its Board of Directors the benefits to 
industry and employment in the United States are likely to outweigh the 
injury to United States producers of the same, similar, or competing 
commodity, and the Chairman of the Board so notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That this subsection shall not 
prohibit--
            (1) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
        from the International Development Association, is not eligible 
        for assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction 
        and Development, and does not export on a consistent basis the 
        agricultural commodity with respect to which assistance is 
        furnished; or
            (2) activities in a country the President determines is 
        recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, or 
        a complex emergency.
    (b) Exports.--None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 shall be available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, 
variety improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, 
conference, or training in connection with the growth or production in 
a foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export which would 
compete with a similar commodity grown or produced in the United 
States:  Provided, That this subsection shall not prohibit--
            (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
        developing countries where such activities will not have a 
        significant impact on the export of agricultural commodities of 
        the United States;
            (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
        United States producers;
            (3) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
        from the International Development Association, is not eligible 
        for assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction 
        and Development, and does not export on a consistent basis the 
        agricultural commodity with respect to which assistance is 
        furnished; or
            (4) activities in a country the President determines is 
        recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, or 
        a complex emergency.
    (c) International Financial Institutions.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States executive directors of the 
international financial institutions, as defined in section 7034(r)(3) 
of this Act, to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose 
any assistance by such institutions, using funds appropriated or made 
available by this Act, for the production or extraction of any 
commodity or mineral for export, if it is in surplus on world markets 
and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to United States 
producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity.

                           separate accounts

    Sec. 7026. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--
            (1) Agreements.--If assistance is furnished to the 
        government of a foreign country under chapters 1 and 10 of part 
        I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        under agreements which result in the generation of local 
        currencies of that country, the Administrator of the United 
        States Agency for International Development (USAID) shall--
                    (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a 
                separate account established by that government;
                    (B) enter into an agreement with that government 
                which sets forth--
                            (i) the amount of the local currencies to 
                        be generated; and
                            (ii) the terms and conditions under which 
                        the currencies so deposited may be utilized, 
                        consistent with this section; and
                    (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
                responsibilities of USAID and that government to 
                monitor and account for deposits into and disbursements 
                from the separate account.
            (2) Uses of local currencies.--As may be agreed upon with 
        the foreign government, local currencies deposited in a 
        separate account pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent 
        amount of local currencies, shall be used only--
                    (A) to carry out chapter 1 or 10 of part I or 
                chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (as the case may be), for such purposes as--
                            (i) project and sector assistance 
                        activities; or
                            (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
                    (B) for the administrative requirements of the 
                United States Government.
            (3) Programming accountability.--USAID shall take all 
        necessary steps to ensure that the equivalent of the local 
        currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(A) from the 
        separate account established pursuant to subsection (a)(1) are 
        used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection 
        (a)(2).
            (4) Termination of assistance programs.--Upon termination 
        of assistance to a country under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or 
        chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as 
        the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds which 
        remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection 
        (a) shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to 
        by the government of that country and the United States 
        Government.
            (5) Reporting requirement.--The USAID Administrator shall 
        report on an annual basis as part of the justification 
        documents submitted to the Committees on Appropriations on the 
        use of local currencies for the administrative requirements of 
        the United States Government as authorized in subsection 
        (a)(2)(B), and such report shall include the amount of local 
        currency (and United States dollar equivalent) used or to be 
        used for such purpose in each applicable country.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--
            (1) In general.--If assistance is made available to the 
        government of a foreign country, under chapter 1 or 10 of part 
        I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961, as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector 
        assistance, that country shall be required to maintain such 
        funds in a separate account and not commingle with any other 
        funds.
            (2) Applicability of other provisions of law.--Such funds 
        may be obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law 
        which are inconsistent with the nature of this assistance 
        including provisions which are referenced in the Joint 
        Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
        accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (House Report No. 98-
        1159).
            (3) Notification.--At least 15 days prior to obligating any 
        such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the 
        President shall submit a notification through the regular 
        notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
        which shall include a detailed description of how the funds 
        proposed to be made available will be used, with a discussion 
        of the United States interests that will be served by the 
        assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of the 
        economic policy reforms that will be promoted by such 
        assistance).
            (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be 
        exempt from the requirements of paragraph (1) only through the 
        regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
        Appropriations.

                       eligibility for assistance

    Sec. 7027. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 
11, and 12 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 and from funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'':  Provided, That before using 
the authority of this subsection to furnish assistance in support of 
programs of nongovernmental organizations, the President shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations pursuant to the regular notification 
procedures, including a description of the program to be assisted, the 
assistance to be provided, and the reasons for furnishing such 
assistance:  Provided further, That nothing in this subsection shall be 
construed to alter any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion 
or involuntary sterilizations contained in this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 2016, restrictions 
contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a 
country shall not be construed to restrict assistance under the Food 
for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480):  Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated to carry out title I of such Act and made available 
pursuant to this subsection may be obligated or expended except as 
provided through the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
            (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to countries that support international terrorism; 
        or
            (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to the government of a country that violates 
        internationally recognized human rights.

                           local competition

    Sec. 7028. (a) Requirements for Exceptions to Competition for Local 
Entities.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are made available to 
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) may only 
be made available for limited competitions through local entities if--
            (1) prior to the determination to limit competition to 
        local entities, USAID has--
                    (A) assessed the level of local capacity to 
                effectively implement, manage, and account for programs 
                included in such competition; and
                    (B) documented the written results of the 
                assessment and decisions made; and
            (2) prior to making an award after limiting competition to 
        local entities--
                    (A) each successful local entity has been 
                determined to be responsible in accordance with USAID 
                guidelines; and
                    (B) effective monitoring and evaluation systems are 
                in place to ensure that award funding is used for its 
                intended purposes; and
            (3) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed.
    (b) Reporting Requirement.--In addition to the requirements of 
paragraph (1), the USAID Administrator shall report, on an annual 
basis, to the appropriate congressional committees on all awards 
subject to limited or no competition for local entities:  Provided, 
That such report should be posted on the USAID Web site:  Provided 
further, That the requirements of this subsection shall only apply to 
awards in excess of $3,000,000 and sole source awards to local entities 
in excess of $2,000,000.
    (c) Extension of Procurement Authority.--Section 7077 of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 112-74) shall 
continue in effect during fiscal year 2016, as amended by the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).

                  international financial institutions

    Sec. 7029. (a) Evaluations and Report.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States executive director of each 
international financial institution to seek to require that such 
institution adopts and implements a publicly available policy, 
including the strategic use of peer reviews and external experts, to 
conduct independent, in-depth evaluations of the effectiveness of at 
least 25 percent of all loans, grants, programs, and significant 
analytical non-lending activities in advancing the institution's goals 
of reducing poverty and promoting equitable economic growth, consistent 
with relevant safeguards, to ensure that decisions to support such 
loans, grants, programs, and activities are based on accurate data and 
objective analysis:  Provided, That not later than 180 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on steps taken by the United States 
executive directors and the international financial institutions 
consistent with this subsection.
    (b) Safeguards.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States Executive Director of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development 
Association to vote against any loan, grant, policy, or strategy if 
such institution has adopted and is implementing any social or 
environmental safeguard relevant to such loan, grant, policy, or 
strategy that provides less protection than World Bank safeguards in 
effect on September 30, 2015.
    (c) Compensation.--None of the funds appropriated under title V of 
this Act may be made as payment to any international financial 
institution while the United States executive director to such 
institution is compensated by the institution at a rate which, together 
with whatever compensation such executive director receives from the 
United States, is in excess of the rate provided for an individual 
occupying a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, or while any alternate 
United States executive director to such institution is compensated by 
the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided for an 
individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Human Rights.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States executive director of each international financial 
institution to seek to require that such institution conducts rigorous 
human rights due diligence and human rights risk management, as 
appropriate, in connection with any loan, grant, policy, or strategy of 
such institution:  Provided, That prior to voting on any such loan, 
grant, policy, or strategy the executive director shall consult with 
the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
Department of State, if the executive director has reason to believe 
that such loan, grant, policy, or strategy could result in forced 
displacement or other violation of human rights.
    (e) Fraud and Corruption.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
instruct the United States executive director of each international 
financial institution to promote in loan, grant, and other financing 
agreements improvements in borrowing countries' financial management 
and judicial capacity to investigate, prosecute, and punish fraud and 
corruption.
    (f) Beneficial Ownership Information.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States executive director of each 
international financial institution to seek to require that such 
institution collects, verifies, and publishes, to the maximum extent 
practicable, beneficial ownership information (excluding proprietary 
information) for any corporation or limited liability company, other 
than a publicly listed company, that receives funds appropriated by 
this Act that are provided as payment to such institution:  Provided, 
That not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations on steps 
taken by the United States executive directors and the international 
financial institutions consistent with this subsection.
    (g) Whistleblower Protections.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
instruct the United States executive director of each international 
financial institution to seek to require that each such institution is 
effectively implementing and enforcing policies and procedures which 
reflect best practices for the protection of whistleblowers from 
retaliation, including best practices for--
            (1) protection against retaliation for internal and lawful 
        public disclosure;
            (2) legal burdens of proof;
            (3) statutes of limitation for reporting retaliation;
            (4) access to independent adjudicative bodies, including 
        external arbitration; and
            (5) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
        retaliation.

                          debt-for-development

    Sec. 7030.  In order to enhance the continued participation of 
nongovernmental organizations in debt-for-development and debt-for-
nature exchanges, a nongovernmental organization which is a grantee or 
contractor of the United States Agency for International Development 
may place in interest bearing accounts local currencies which accrue to 
that organization as a result of economic assistance provided under 
title III of this Act and, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, any interest earned on 
such investment shall be used for the purpose for which the assistance 
was provided to that organization.

              financial management and budget transparency

    Sec. 7031. (a) Limitation on Direct Government-to-Government 
Assistance.--
            (1) Requirements.--Funds appropriated by this Act may be 
        made available for direct government-to-government assistance 
        only if--
                    (A)(i) each implementing agency or ministry to 
                receive assistance has been assessed and is considered 
                to have the systems required to manage such assistance 
                and any identified vulnerabilities or weaknesses of 
                such agency or ministry have been addressed;
                    (ii) the recipient agency or ministry employs and 
                utilizes staff with the necessary technical, financial, 
                and management capabilities;
                    (iii) the recipient agency or ministry has adopted 
                competitive procurement policies and systems;
                    (iv) effective monitoring and evaluation systems 
                are in place to ensure that such assistance is used for 
                its intended purposes;
                    (v) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed; and
                    (vi) the government of the recipient country is 
                taking steps to publicly disclose on an annual basis 
                its national budget, to include income and 
                expenditures;
                    (B) the recipient government is in compliance with 
                the principles set forth in section 7013 of this Act;
                    (C) the recipient agency or ministry is not headed 
                or controlled by an organization designated as a 
                foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act;
                    (D) the Government of the United States and the 
                government of the recipient country have agreed, in 
                writing, on clear and achievable objectives for the use 
                of such assistance, which should be made available on a 
                cost-reimbursable basis; and
                    (E) the recipient government is taking steps to 
                protect the rights of civil society, including freedoms 
                of expression, association, and assembly.
            (2) Consultation and notification.--In addition to the 
        requirements in paragraph (1), no funds may be made available 
        for direct government-to-government assistance without prior 
        consultation with, and notification of, the Committees on 
        Appropriations:  Provided, That such notification shall contain 
        an explanation of how the proposed activity meets the 
        requirements of paragraph (1):  Provided further, That the 
        requirements of this paragraph shall only apply to direct 
        government-to-government assistance in excess of $10,000,000 
        and all funds available for cash transfer, budget support, and 
        cash payments to individuals.
            (3) Suspension of assistance.--The Administrator of the 
        United States Agency for International Development (USAID) or 
        the Secretary of State, as appropriate, shall suspend any 
        direct government-to-government assistance if the Administrator 
        or the Secretary has credible information of material misuse of 
        such assistance, unless the Administrator or the Secretary 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that it is in the 
        national interest of the United States to continue such 
        assistance, including a justification, or that such misuse has 
        been appropriately addressed.
            (4) Submission of information.--The Secretary of State 
        shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations, concurrent 
        with the fiscal year 2017 congressional budget justification 
        materials, amounts planned for assistance described in 
        paragraph (1) by country, proposed funding amount, source of 
        funds, and type of assistance.
            (5) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the enactment of 
        this Act and 6 months thereafter until September 30, 2016, the 
        USAID Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations a report that--
                    (A) details all assistance described in paragraph 
                (1) provided during the previous 6-month period by 
                country, funding amount, source of funds, and type of 
                such assistance; and
                    (B) the type of procurement instrument or mechanism 
                utilized and whether the assistance was provided on a 
                reimbursable basis.
            (6) Debt service payment prohibition.--None of the funds 
        made available by this Act may be used for any foreign country 
        for debt service payments owed by any country to any 
        international financial institution:  Provided, That for 
        purposes of this paragraph, the term ``international financial 
        institution'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        7034(r)(3) of this Act.
    (b) National Budget and Contract Transparency.--
            (1) Minimum requirements of fiscal transparency.--The 
        Secretary of State shall continue to update and strengthen the 
        ``minimum requirements of fiscal transparency'' for each 
        government receiving assistance appropriated by this Act, as 
        identified in the report required by section 7031(b) of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).
            (2) Definition.--For purposes of paragraph (1), ``minimum 
        requirements of fiscal transparency'' are requirements 
        consistent with those in subsection (a)(1), and the public 
        disclosure of national budget documentation (to include 
        receipts and expenditures by ministry) and government contracts 
        and licenses for natural resource extraction (to include 
        bidding and concession allocation practices).
            (3) Determination and report.--For each government 
        identified pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of State, 
        not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, shall make 
        or update any determination of ``significant progress'' or ``no 
        significant progress'' in meeting the minimum requirements of 
        fiscal transparency, and make such determinations publicly 
        available in an annual ``Fiscal Transparency Report'' to be 
        posted on the Department of State Web site:  Provided, That the 
        Secretary shall identify the significant progress made by each 
        such government to publicly disclose national budget 
        documentation, contracts, and licenses which are additional to 
        such information disclosed in previous fiscal years, and 
        include specific recommendations of short- and long-term steps 
        such government should take to improve fiscal transparency:  
        Provided further, That the annual report shall include a 
        detailed description of how funds appropriated by this Act are 
        being used to improve fiscal transparency, and identify 
        benchmarks for measuring progress.
            (4) Assistance.--Funds appropriated under title III of this 
        Act shall be made available for programs and activities to 
        assist governments identified pursuant to paragraph (1) to 
        improve budget transparency and to support civil society 
        organizations in such countries that promote budget 
        transparency:  Provided, That such sums shall be in addition to 
        funds otherwise made available for such purposes:  Provided 
        further, That a description of the uses of such funds shall be 
        included in the annual ``Fiscal Transparency Report'' required 
        by paragraph (3).
    (c) Anti-Kleptocracy and Human Rights.--
            (1)(A) Ineligibility.--Officials of foreign governments and 
        their immediate family members about whom the Secretary of 
        State has credible information have been involved in 
        significant corruption, including corruption related to the 
        extraction of natural resources, or a gross violation of human 
        rights shall be ineligible for entry into the United States.
            (B) The Secretary may also publicly or privately designate 
        or identify officials of foreign governments and their 
        immediate family members about whom the Secretary has such 
        credible information without regard to whether the individual 
        has applied for a visa.
            (2) Exception.--Individuals shall not be ineligible if 
        entry into the United States would further important United 
        States law enforcement objectives or is necessary to permit the 
        United States to fulfill its obligations under the United 
        Nations Headquarters Agreement:  Provided, That nothing in 
        paragraph (1) shall be construed to derogate from United States 
        Government obligations under applicable international 
        agreements.
            (3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that the waiver would 
        serve a compelling national interest or that the circumstances 
        which caused the individual to be ineligible have changed 
        sufficiently.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 6 months after enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report, 
        including a classified annex if necessary, to the Committees on 
        Appropriations and the Committees on the Judiciary describing 
        the information related to corruption or violation of human 
        rights concerning each of the individuals found ineligible in 
        the previous 12 months pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) as well as 
        the individuals who the Secretary designated or identified 
        pursuant to paragraph (1)(B), or who would be ineligible but 
        for the application of paragraph (2), a list of any waivers 
        provided under paragraph (3), and the justification for each 
        waiver.
            (5) Posting of report.--Any unclassified portion of the 
        report required under paragraph (4) shall be posted on the 
        Department of State Web site.
            (6) Clarification.--For purposes of paragraphs (1)(B), (4), 
        and (5), the records of the Department of State and of 
        diplomatic and consular offices of the United States pertaining 
        to the issuance or refusal of visas or permits to enter the 
        United States shall not be considered confidential.
    (d) Extraction of Natural Resources.--
            (1) Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
        made available to promote and support transparency and 
        accountability of expenditures and revenues related to the 
        extraction of natural resources, including by strengthening 
        implementation and monitoring of the Extractive Industries 
        Transparency Initiative, implementing and enforcing section 
        8204 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public 
        Law 110-246; 122 Stat. 2052) and to prevent the sale of 
        conflict diamonds, and provide technical assistance to promote 
        independent audit mechanisms and support civil society 
        participation in natural resource management.
            (2) United states policy.--
                    (A) The Secretary of the Treasury shall inform the 
                management of the international financial institutions, 
                and post on the Department of the Treasury Web site, 
                that it is the policy of the United States to vote 
                against any assistance by such institutions (including 
                any loan, credit, grant, or guarantee) for the 
                extraction and export of a natural resource if the 
                government of the country has in place laws, 
                regulations, or procedures to prevent or limit the 
                public disclosure of company payments as required by 
                section 1504 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
                Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 
                2220), and unless such government has adopted laws, 
                regulations, or procedures in the sector in which 
                assistance is being considered for--
                            (i) accurately accounting for and public 
                        disclosure of payments to the host government 
                        by companies involved in the extraction and 
                        export of natural resources;
                            (ii) the independent auditing of accounts 
                        receiving such payments and public disclosure 
                        of the findings of such audits; and
                            (iii) public disclosure of such documents 
                        as Host Government Agreements, Concession 
                        Agreements, and bidding documents, allowing in 
                        any such dissemination or disclosure for the 
                        redaction of, or exceptions for, information 
                        that is commercially proprietary or that would 
                        create competitive disadvantage.
                    (B) The requirements of subparagraph (A) shall not 
                apply to assistance for the purpose of building the 
                capacity of such government to meet the requirements of 
                this subparagraph.
    (e) Foreign Assistance Web Site.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under titles I and II, and funds made available for any independent 
agency in title III, as appropriate, may be made available to support 
the provision of additional information on United States Government 
foreign assistance on the Department of State foreign assistance Web 
site:  Provided, That all Federal agencies funded under this Act shall 
provide such information on foreign assistance, upon request, to the 
Department of State.

                           democracy programs

    Sec. 7032. (a) Funding.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act in titles III, 
        IV, and V, not less than $2,308,517,000 shall be made available 
        for democracy programs, of which amounts shall be allocated as 
        follows--
                    (A) not less than $312,963,000 for Africa;
                    (B) not less than $157,423,000 for the East Asia 
                and the Pacific region;
                    (C) not less than $193,244,000 for Europe and 
                Eurasia;
                    (D) not less than $409,316,000 for the Near East 
                region;
                    (E) not less than $627,944,000 for South and 
                Central Asia; and
                    (F) not less than $480,526,000 for the Western 
                Hemisphere.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act not less than 
        $25,000,000 shall be made available for democracy programs in 
        countries experiencing political, ethnic, racial, religious, or 
        other instability or conflict, or emerging from conflict, 
        including Sri Lanka and Nepal, which shall be administered by 
        the United States chief of mission in such countries:  
        Provided, That the Secretary of State shall consult with the 
        Committees on Appropriations prior to obligating funds for such 
        purpose.
    (b) Authority.--Funds made available by this Act for democracy 
programs may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, and with regard to the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), any 
regulation.
    (c) Definition of Democracy Programs.--For purposes of funds 
appropriated by this Act, the term ``democracy programs'' means 
programs that support good governance, credible and competitive 
elections, freedom of expression, association, assembly, and religion, 
human rights, labor rights, independent media, and the rule of law, and 
that otherwise strengthen the capacity of democratic political parties, 
governments, nongovernmental organizations and institutions, and 
citizens to support the development of democratic states, and 
institutions that are responsive and accountable to citizens.
    (d) Restriction on Prior Approval.--With respect to the provision 
of assistance for democracy programs in this Act, the organizations 
implementing such assistance, the specific nature of that assistance, 
and the participants in such programs shall not be subject to the prior 
approval by the government of any foreign country:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of State, in coordination with the Administrator of the 
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), shall 
report to the Committees on Appropriations, not later than 120 days 
after enactment of this Act, detailing steps taken by the Department of 
State and USAID to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
    (e) Prioritization of Funding Mechanisms.--Democracy programs 
implemented by funds made available by this Act shall be designed to 
have grants and cooperative agreements as the primary delivery 
mechanisms for such programs:  Provided, That not later than 60 days 
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and USAID 
Administrator shall each submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations detailing the steps to be taken by the Department of 
State and USAID to comply with the requirements of this subsection:  
Provided further, That for contracts to be used to implement such 
programs with funds made available by this Act that exceed $1,000,000, 
the Secretary of State and USAID Administrator, as appropriate, shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations a justification for the use 
of such mechanisms on a case-by-case basis and before Requests for 
Proposals are released.
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Policy implementation.--The Secretary of State and 
        USAID Administrator shall develop and establish revised 
        guidelines on the uses of grants and cooperative agreements for 
        democracy programs, in accordance with the objectives of 
        promoting resilient, open, and democratic societies in the 
        Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review, 2015, and the 
        foreign policy objectives in the ADVANCE Democracy Act of 2007 
        (title XXI of Public Law 110-53; 22 U.S.C. 8202):  Provided, 
        That the Secretary and USAID Administrator shall consult with 
        democracy program implementers in establishing such guidelines, 
        and shall each submit such guidelines to the appropriate 
        congressional committees once established.
            (2) Training.--Not later than 90 days after enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of State shall update and submit to the 
        Committees on Appropriations the report required by section 
        2141(c) of the ADVANCE Democracy Act of 2007 (title XXI of 
        Public Law 110-53; 22 U.S.C. 8241):  Provided, That such report 
        shall also include the total number of democracy and human 
        rights officers, including Democracy Liaison Officers and other 
        positions with responsibility for democracy and human rights 
        related issues and programs, at the Department of State and 
        USAID for calendar years 2013, 2014, and 2015.
    (g) Nondemocratic and Democratic Transitioning Countries.--
            (1) Democracy strategic reviews and assessments.--Prior to 
        the obligation of funds made available for Department of State 
        and USAID democracy programs in a nondemocratic or democratic 
        transitioning country, the Under Secretary for Civilian 
        Security, Democracy and Human Rights, Department of State, in 
        consultation with other relevant officials at the Department of 
        State and USAID, including the Director of the Center of 
        Excellence on Democracy, Human Rights, and Governance, USAID, 
        shall review and assess the annual country strategy required by 
        section 2111(c)(1) of the ADVANCE Democracy Act of 2007 (title 
        XXI of Public Law 110-53; 22 U.S.C. 8211), and submit a report 
        to the Committees on Appropriations describing--
                    (A) the goals and objectives of such program, 
                including a timeline for achieving results, and any 
                modification proposed as a result of the review and 
                assessment;
                    (B) the political and social conditions in such 
                country that may impact the promotion of democracy;
                    (C) the assessed risks to intended beneficiaries of 
                such program;
                    (D) the assessed risks to implementers in the 
                conduct of such program, to be developed in 
                consultation with implementers and other United States 
                Government agencies, as appropriate; and
                    (E) the funding requirements of initiating and 
                sustaining such program in fiscal year 2016 and 
                subsequent fiscal years.
            (2) Definition.--For the purposes of the subsection the 
        term ``nondemocratic or democratic transitioning country'' 
        shall have the same meaning as in section 2104(6) of the 
        ADVANCE Democracy Act of 2007 (title XXI of Public Law 110-53; 
        22 U.S.C. 8203).
    (h) Consultation and Communication Requirements.--
            (1) Change in allocation of foreign assistance.--The Deputy 
        Secretary for Management and Resources, Department of State, 
        shall consult with the Under Secretary for Civilian Security, 
        Democracy and Human Rights, Department of State, and the 
        Director of the Center of Excellence on Democracy, Human 
        Rights, and Governance, USAID, on the proposed funding level 
        for democracy programs submitted to Congress pursuant to 
        section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
            (2) Informing the national endowment for democracy.--The 
        Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
        Department of State, and the Assistant Administrator for 
        Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, USAID, shall 
        regularly inform the National Endowment for Democracy of 
        democracy programs that are planned and supported by funds made 
        available by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for 
        the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
        programs.

                    international religious freedom

    Sec. 7033. (a) International Religious Freedom Office and Special 
Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', not less 
than $5,000,000 shall be made available for the Office of the 
Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom, and not less 
than $1,000,000 shall be made available for the Special Envoy to 
Promote Religious Freedom in the Near East and South Central Asia, 
including for support staff.
    (b) Assistance.--
            (1) International religious freedom programs.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Democracy Fund'' 
        and available for the Human Rights and Democracy Fund (HRDF), 
        not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
        international religious freedom programs:  Provided, That the 
        Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom shall 
        consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the uses of 
        such funds.
            (2) Protection and investigation programs.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
        Fund'', not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
        programs to protect vulnerable and persecuted religious 
        minorities:  Provided, That a portion of such funds shall be 
        made available for programs to investigate the persecution of 
        such minorities by governments and non-state entities and for 
        the public dissemination of information collected on such 
        persecution, including on the Department of State Web site.
            (3) Humanitarian and relief programs.--Funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the headings ``International Disaster 
        Assistance'' and ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' shall be 
        made available for humanitarian and relief assistance for 
        vulnerable and persecuted religious minorities.
            (4) Responsibility of funds.--Funds made available by 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be the responsibility of the 
        Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom, in 
        consultation with other relevant United States Government 
        officials.
    (c) International Broadcasting.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Broadcasting Board of Governors, International 
Broadcasting Operations'' shall be made available for programs related 
to international religious freedom, including reporting on the plight 
of vulnerable and persecuted religious groups.
    (d) Genocide Determination.--Not later than 90 days after enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads of 
other relevant United States Government agencies and representatives 
from United States civil society, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees determinations on whether the ongoing violence 
against Christians in the Middle East by Islamic extremists or against 
the Rohingya people in Burma by Buddhist extremists constitutes 
genocide, as defined in section 1091 of title 18, United States Code:  
Provided, That if the Secretary of State makes a determination that 
such violence constitutes genocide, the Secretary shall concurrently 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a strategy for 
addressing such genocide.
    (e) Designation of Non-State Entities.--The President shall, 
concurrent with the annual review required by section 402(b)(1) of the 
International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6442(b)(1)), 
identify any non-state entities that have engaged in significant 
violations of religious freedom, and designate each such entity as a 
non-state entity of particular concern for religious freedom:  
Provided, That whenever the President designates a non-state entity as 
a non-state entity of particular concern for religious freedom under 
this paragraph, the President shall, as soon as practicable after the 
designation is made, submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
committees detailing the reasons for such designation.
    (f) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2016, the Secretary of 
State, in consultation with the Broadcasting Board of Governors and the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development, shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
committees detailing, by account, agency, and on a country-by-country 
basis, funds made available by this Act and prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs for the previous 5 fiscal years for international 
religious freedom programs; protection and investigation programs 
regarding vulnerable and persecuted religious minorities; humanitarian 
and relief assistance for such minorities; and international 
broadcasting regarding religious freedom.

                           special provisions

    Sec. 7034. (a) Victims of War, Displaced Children, and Displaced 
Burmese.--Funds appropriated in titles III and VI of this Act that are 
made available for victims of war, displaced children, displaced 
Burmese, and to combat trafficking in persons and assist victims of 
such trafficking, may be made available notwithstanding any other 
provision of law.
    (b) Law Enforcement and Security.--
            (1) Child soldiers.--Funds appropriated by this Act should 
        not be used to support any military training or operations that 
        include child soldiers.
            (2) Crowd control items.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        should not be used for tear gas, small arms, light weapons, 
        ammunition, or other items for crowd control purposes for 
        foreign security forces that use excessive force to repress 
        peaceful expression, association, or assembly in countries 
        undergoing democratic transition.
            (3) Disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration.--
        Section 7034(d) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
        and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of 
        Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect during fiscal year 
        2016 as if part of this Act.
            (4) Forensic assistance.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
        Enforcement'', not less than $4,000,000 shall be made available 
        for forensic assistance relating to the exhumation of mass 
        graves and identification of victims of war crimes and crimes 
        against humanity, including in Sri Lanka, Central America, 
        Peru, Colombia, and Africa, which shall be administered by the 
        Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
        Department of State.
            (5) International prisons conditions.--Section 7065 of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) 
        shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2016 as if part of 
        this Act.
            (6) Reconstituting civilian police authority.--In providing 
        assistance with funds appropriated by this Act under section 
        660(b)(6) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, support for a 
        nation emerging from instability may be deemed to mean support 
        for regional, district, municipal, or other sub-national entity 
        emerging from instability, as well as a nation emerging from 
        instability.
            (7) Security assistance report.--Not later than 120 days 
        after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
        submit to the Committees on Appropriations a report on funds 
        obligated and expended during fiscal year 2015, by country and 
        purpose of assistance, under the headings ``Nonproliferation, 
        Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'' (for Anti-
        terrorism Programs), ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
        ``International Military Education and Training'', and 
        ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', as well as excess 
        defense articles provided.
            (8) Leahy vetting report.--(A) Not later than 90 days after 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
        report to the appropriate congressional committees on foreign 
        assistance cases submitted for vetting for purposes of section 
        620M of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 during the preceding 
        fiscal year, including:
                    (i) the total number of cases submitted, approved, 
                suspended, or rejected for human rights reasons; and
                    (ii) for cases rejected for human rights reasons, a 
                description of the steps taken to encourage and assist 
                a foreign government in bringing such individuals 
                responsible to justice, in accordance with section 
                620M(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
            (B) The report required by this paragraph shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may be accompanied by a 
        classified annex.
            (9) Annual foreign military training report.--For the 
        purposes of implementing section 656 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961, the term ``military training provided to foreign 
        military personnel by the Department of Defense and the 
        Department of State'' shall be deemed to include all military 
        training provided by foreign governments with funds 
        appropriated to the Department of Defense or the Department of 
        State, except for training provided by the government of a 
        country designated by section 517(b) of such Act as a major 
        non-NATO ally, excluding Egypt.
    (c) World Food Programme.--Funds managed by the Bureau for 
Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, United States Agency 
for International Development (USAID), from this or any other Act, may 
be made available as a general contribution to the World Food 
Programme, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (d) Directives and Authorities.--
            (1) Research and training.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
        Asia'' shall be made available to carry out the Program for 
        Research and Training on Eastern Europe and the Independent 
        States of the Former Soviet Union as authorized by the Soviet-
        Eastern European Research and Training Act of 1983 (22 U.S.C. 
        4501 et seq.).
            (2) Genocide victims memorial sites.--Funds appropriated by 
        this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance 
        for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' may be made available as 
        contributions to establish and maintain memorial sites of 
        genocide, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.
            (3) Additional authorities.--Of the amounts made available 
        by title I of this Act under the heading ``Diplomatic and 
        Consular Programs'', up to $500,000 may be made available for 
        grants pursuant to section 504 of Public Law 95-426 (22 U.S.C. 
        2656d), including to facilitate collaboration with indigenous 
        communities, and up to $1,000,000 may be made available for 
        grants to carry out the activities of the Cultural Antiquities 
        Task Force.
            (4) Extension of legal protection.--Section 
        7041(a)(2)(C)(ii) of the Department of State, Foreign 
        Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 
        (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect 
        during fiscal year 2016 and thereafter as if part of this Act.
            (5) Conditions on authority.--The authorities provided for 
        under the headings ``Program Account'', ``Administrative 
        Expenses'', and ``Receipts Collected'' for the Export-Import 
        Bank of the United States under title VI of this Act shall not 
        be construed or interpreted to extend the date specified in 
        section 7 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (Public Law 79-
        173).
            (6) Modification of life insurance supplemental applicable 
        to those killed in terrorist attacks.--
                    (A) Section 415(a) of the Foreign Service Act of 
                1980 (22 U.S.C. 3975(a)) is amended by striking ``a 
                payment from the United States in an amount that, when 
                added to the amount of the employee's employer-provided 
                group life insurance policy coverage (if any), equals 
                $400,000'' and inserting ``a special payment of 
                $400,000, which shall be in addition to any employer 
                provided life insurance policy coverage''.
                    (B) The insurance benefit under section 415 of the 
                Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3975), as 
                amended by subparagraph (A), shall be applicable to 
                eligible employees who die as a result of injuries 
                sustained while on duty abroad because of an act of 
                terrorism, as defined in section 140(d) of the Foreign 
                Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1998 and 1999 
                (22 U.S.C. 2656f(d)), anytime on or after April 18, 
                1983.
            (7) Authority.--Funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available in accordance with section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
        Technology Innovation Act of 1980, except that foreign citizens 
        and foreign private entities may be eligible notwithstanding 
        section 24(g)(3) of such Act.
    (e) Partner Vetting.--Funds appropriated by this Act or in titles I 
through IV of prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be used by the 
Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator, as appropriate, to 
support the continued implementation of the Partner Vetting System 
(PVS) pilot program:  Provided, That the Secretary of State and the 
USAID Administrator shall jointly submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations, not later than 30 days after completion of the pilot 
program, on the estimated timeline and criteria for evaluating the PVS 
pilot program for possible expansion:  Provided further, That such 
report shall include the requirements specified in the report 
accompanying this Act:  Provided further, That after completion of the 
pilot program the Department of State and USAID may not proceed with 
implementation of a PVS program until the Secretary of State and USAID 
Administrator, following the submission of the report required by the 
previous proviso, consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the 
results and findings of the pilot program, and review such results and 
findings with appropriate representatives from civil society.
    (f) Contingencies.--During fiscal year 2016, the President may use 
up to $150,000,000 under the authority of section 451 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (g) International Child Abductions.--The Secretary of State should 
withhold funds appropriated under title III of this Act for assistance 
for the central government of any country that is not taking 
appropriate steps to comply with the Convention on the Civil Aspects of 
International Child Abductions, done at the Hague on October 25, 1980:  
Provided, That the Secretary shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations within 15 days of withholding funds under this 
subsection.
    (h) Reports Repealed.--Section 10(b) of Public Law 109-446; section 
4 of Public Law 107-243; section 616(c) of Public Law 105-277; section 
620C(c) of Public Law 87-195; and section 303 of title 22, United 
States Code, are hereby repealed.
    (i) Transfers for Extraordinary Protection.--The Secretary of State 
may transfer to, and merge with, funds under the heading ``Protection 
of Foreign Missions and Officials'' unobligated balances of expired 
funds appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs'' for fiscal year 2016, except for funds designated for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, at no later than the end of the fifth fiscal year 
after the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the 
purposes for which appropriated:  Provided, That not more than 
$50,000,000 may be transferred.
    (j) Protections and Remedies for Employees of Diplomatic Missions 
and International Organizations.--Section 7034(k) of the Department of 
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect during 
fiscal year 2016 as if part of this Act.
    (k) Extension of Authorities.--
            (1) Passport fees.--Section 1(b)(2) of the Passport Act of 
        June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C. 214(b)(2)) shall be applied by 
        substituting ``September 30, 2016'' for ``September 30, 2010''.
            (2) Accountability review boards.--The authority provided 
        by section 301(a)(3) of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and 
        Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 4831(a)(3)) shall remain 
        in effect for facilities in Afghanistan through September 30, 
        2016, except that the notification and reporting requirements 
        contained in such section shall include the Committees on 
        Appropriations.
            (3) Incentives for critical posts.--The authority contained 
        in section 1115(d) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 
        (Public Law 111-32) shall remain in effect through September 
        30, 2016.
            (4) Foreign service officer annuitant waiver.--Section 
        824(g) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4064(g)) 
        shall be applied by substituting ``September 30, 2016'' for 
        ``October 1, 2010'' in paragraph (2).
            (5) Department of state civil service annuitant waiver.--
        Section 61(a) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 
        1956 (22 U.S.C. 2733(a)) shall be applied by substituting 
        ``September 30, 2016'' for ``October 1, 2010'' in paragraph 
        (2).
            (6) USAID civil service annuitant waiver.--Section 
        625(j)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
        2385(j)(1)) shall be applied by substituting ``September 30, 
        2016'' for ``October 1, 2010'' in subparagraph (B).
            (7) Overseas pay comparability and limitation.--(A) Subject 
        to the limitation described in subparagraph (B), the authority 
        provided by section 1113 of the Supplemental Appropriations 
        Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32; 123 Stat. 1904) shall remain in 
        effect through September 30, 2016.
            (B) The authority described in subparagraph (A) may not be 
        used to pay an eligible member of the Foreign Service (as 
        defined in section 1113(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
        Act, 2009) a locality-based comparability payment (stated as a 
        percentage) that exceeds two-thirds of the amount of the 
        locality-based comparability payment (stated as a percentage) 
        that would be payable to such member under section 5304 of 
        title 5, United States Code, if such member's official duty 
        station were in the District of Columbia.
            (8) Alien status.--The Foreign Operations, Export 
        Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 
        (Public Law 101-167) is amended--
                    (A) In section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
                            (i) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``and 
                        2015'' and inserting ``2015, and 2016''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (e), by striking 
                        ``2015'' each place it appears and inserting 
                        ``2016''; and
                    (B) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in 
                subsection (b)(2), by striking ``2015'' and inserting 
                ``2016''.
            (9) Inspector general annuitant waiver.--The authorities 
        provided in section 1015(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
        Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212) shall remain in effect through 
        September 30, 2016.
    (l) Department of State Working Capital Fund.--Funds appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available to the Department of State for 
payments to the Working Capital Fund may only be used for the 
activities and in the amounts justified in the President's fiscal year 
2016 budget:  Provided, That Federal agency components shall be charged 
only for their direct usage of each Working Capital Fund service:  
Provided further, That Federal agency components may only pay for 
Working Capital Fund services that are consistent with the component's 
purpose and authorities:  Provided further, That the Working Capital 
Fund shall be paid in advance or reimbursed at rates which will return 
the full cost of each service.
    (m) Humanitarian Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act that 
are available for monitoring and evaluation of assistance under the 
headings ``International Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and 
Refugee Assistance'' shall, as appropriate, be made available for the 
regular collection of feedback obtained directly from beneficiaries on 
the quality and relevance of such assistance:  Provided, That the 
Department of State and USAID shall conduct regular oversight to ensure 
that such feedback is collected and used by implementing partners to 
maximize the cost-effectiveness and utility of such assistance, and 
require such partners that receive funds under such headings to 
establish procedures for collecting and responding to such feedback.
    (n) HIV/AIDS Working Capital Fund.--Funds available in the HIV/AIDS 
Working Capital Fund established pursuant to section 525(b)(1) of the 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-477) may be made available for 
pharmaceuticals and other products for child survival, malaria, and 
tuberculosis to the same extent as HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and other 
products, subject to the terms and conditions in such section:  
Provided, That the authority in section 525(b)(5) of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2005 (Public Law 108-477) shall be exercised by the Assistant 
Administrator for Global Health, USAID, with respect to funds deposited 
for such non-HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and other products, and shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall 
include in the congressional budget justification an accounting of 
budgetary resources, disbursements, balances, and reimbursements 
related to such fund.
    (o) Loan Guarantees and Enterprise Funds.--
            (1) Loan guarantees.--Funds appropriated under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' only in title III of this Act and 
        prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
        foreign operations, and related programs may be made available 
        for the costs, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974, of loan guarantees for Jordan, Ukraine, and 
        Tunisia, which are authorized to be provided:  Provided, That 
        amounts made available under this paragraph for the costs of 
        such guarantees shall not be considered assistance for the 
        purposes of provisions of law limiting assistance to a country.
            (2) Enterprise funds.--Funds appropriated under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act may be made available to 
        establish and operate one or more enterprise funds for Egypt 
        and Tunisia, notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
        following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations:  
        Provided, That the first, third and fifth provisos under 
        section 7041(b) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
        and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of 
        Public Law 112-74) shall apply to funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for an 
        enterprise fund or funds to the same extent and in the same 
        manner as such provision of law applied to funds made available 
        under such section (except that the clause excluding subsection 
        (d)(3) of section 201 of the SEED Act shall not apply):  
        Provided further, That the authority of any such enterprise 
        fund or funds to provide assistance shall cease to be effective 
        on December 31, 2026.
            (3) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available by 
        this subsection shall be subject to prior consultation with, 
        and the regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
        Appropriations.
    (p) Assessment of Indirect Costs.--Not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act and following consultation with the Committees on 
Appropriations, the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the 
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) shall submit 
to such Committees an assessment of the effectiveness of current 
policies and procedures in ensuring that payments for indirect costs, 
including for negotiated indirect cost rate agreements (NICRA), are 
reasonable and comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), 
as applicable, and title 2, part 200 of the Code of Federal Regulations 
(CFR); an assessment of potential benefits of setting a cap on such 
indirect costs to ensure the cost-effective use of appropriated funds; 
a plan to revise such policies and procedures to comply with the FAR 
and CFR and ensure that indirect costs are reasonable; and a timeline 
for implementing such plan.
    (q) Small Grants and Entities.--(1) Of the funds appropriated by 
this Act under the headings ``Development Assistance'' and ``Economic 
Support Fund'', not less than $45,000,000 shall be made available to 
conduct, and pursuant to the authorities of, the Small Grants Program 
established by section 7080 of the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J 
of Public Law 113-235), which may remain available until September 30, 
2020.
    (2) Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID) shall post on the USAID Web site detailed information 
describing the process by which small nongovernmental organizations, 
educational institutions, and other small entities seeking funding from 
USAID for unsolicited proposals through grants, cooperative agreements, 
and other assistance mechanism and agreements, can apply for such 
funding:  Provided, That the USAID Administrator should ensure that 
each bureau, office, and overseas mission has authority to approve, and 
sufficient funds to implement, such grants or other agreements that 
meet appropriate criteria for unsolicited proposals.
    (3) Section 7080 of Public Law 113-235 is amended as follows:
            (A) in subsections (b) and (c), strike ``Grants'', and 
        insert ``Awards'';
            (B) in subsection (c)(1), delete ``or'' after 
        ``proposals;'';
            (C) in subsection (c)(2) delete the period after 
        ``process'', and insert ``; or'';
            (D) after subsection (c)(2), insert ``(3) as otherwise 
        allowable under Federal Acquisition Regulations and USAID 
        procurement policies.''; and
            (E) in subsection (e)(3), strike ``12'', and insert ``20'', 
        and strike ``administrative and oversight expenses associated 
        with managing'' and insert ``administrative expenses, and other 
        necessary support associated with managing and strengthening''.
    (4) For the purposes of section 7080 of Public Law 113-235, 
``eligible entities'' shall be defined as small local, international, 
and United States-based nongovernmental organizations, educational 
institutions, and other small entities that have received less than a 
total of $5,000,000 in USAID funding over the previous five years:  
Provided, That departments or centers of such educational institutions 
may be considered individually in determining such eligibility.
    (r) Definitions.--
            (1) Unless otherwise defined in this Act, for purposes of 
        this Act the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        shall mean the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations 
        and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Unless otherwise defined in this Act, for purposes of 
        this Act the term ``funds appropriated in this Act and prior 
        Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs'' shall mean funds that remain 
        available for obligation, and have not expired.
            (3) For the purposes of this Act ``international financial 
        institutions'' shall mean the International Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development, the International Development 
        Association, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-
        American Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the 
        Asian Development Bank, the Asian Development Fund, the Inter-
        American Investment Corporation, the North American Development 
        Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
        African Development Bank, the African Development Fund, and the 
        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency.
            (4) For purposes of this Act, the term ``countering violent 
        extremism'' shall be defined as non-coercive interventions 
        aimed directly at reducing public support for non-state 
        entities that engage in terrorist activities.
            (5) For purposes of this Act, the term ``best practices'' 
        for the protection of whistleblowers means practices that are 
        implemented consistent with terms specified in international 
        conventions or adopted by international organizations such as 
        the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development and 
        the Organization of American States.
            (6) Any reference to Southern Kordofan in this or any other 
        Act making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs shall be deemed to include 
        portions of Western Kordofan that were previously part of 
        Southern Kordofan prior to the 2013 division of Southern 
        Kordofan.

                     arab league boycott of israel

    Sec. 7035.  It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Arab League boycott of Israel, and the secondary 
        boycott of American firms that have commercial ties with 
        Israel, is an impediment to peace in the region and to United 
        States investment and trade in the Middle East and North 
        Africa;
            (2) the Arab League boycott, which was regrettably 
        reinstated in 1997, should be immediately and publicly 
        terminated, and the Central Office for the Boycott of Israel 
        immediately disbanded;
            (3) all Arab League states should normalize relations with 
        their neighbor Israel;
            (4) the President and the Secretary of State should 
        continue to vigorously oppose the Arab League boycott of Israel 
        and find concrete steps to demonstrate that opposition by, for 
        example, taking into consideration the participation of any 
        recipient country in the boycott when determining to sell 
        weapons to said country; and
            (5) the President should report to Congress annually on 
        specific steps being taken by the United States to encourage 
        Arab League states to normalize their relations with Israel to 
        bring about the termination of the Arab League boycott of 
        Israel, including those to encourage allies and trading 
        partners of the United States to enact laws prohibiting 
        businesses from complying with the boycott and penalizing 
        businesses that do comply.

                         palestinian statehood

    Sec. 7036. (a) Limitation on Assistance.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be provided to 
support a Palestinian state unless the Secretary of State determines 
and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that--
            (1) the governing entity of a new Palestinian state--
                    (A) has demonstrated a firm commitment to peaceful 
                co-existence with the State of Israel; and
                    (B) is taking appropriate measures to counter 
                terrorism and terrorist financing in the West Bank and 
                Gaza, including the dismantling of terrorist 
                infrastructures, and is cooperating with appropriate 
                Israeli and other appropriate security organizations; 
                and
            (2) the Palestinian Authority (or the governing entity of a 
        new Palestinian state) is working with other countries in the 
        region to vigorously pursue efforts to establish a just, 
        lasting, and comprehensive peace in the Middle East that will 
        enable Israel and an independent Palestinian state to exist 
        within the context of full and normal relationships, which 
        should include--
                    (A) termination of all claims or states of 
                belligerency;
                    (B) respect for and acknowledgment of the 
                sovereignty, territorial integrity, and political 
                independence of every state in the area through 
                measures including the establishment of demilitarized 
                zones;
                    (C) their right to live in peace within secure and 
                recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of 
                force;
                    (D) freedom of navigation through international 
                waterways in the area; and
                    (E) a framework for achieving a just settlement of 
                the refugee problem.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
governing entity should enact a constitution assuring the rule of law, 
an independent judiciary, and respect for human rights for its 
citizens, and should enact other laws and regulations assuring 
transparent and accountable governance.
    (c) Waiver.--The President may waive subsection (a) if the 
President determines that it is important to the national security 
interest of the United States to do so.
    (d) Exemption.--The restriction in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to assistance intended to help reform the Palestinian Authority and 
affiliated institutions, or the governing entity, in order to help meet 
the requirements of subsection (a), consistent with the provisions of 
section 7040 of this Act (``Limitation on Assistance for the 
Palestinian Authority'').

           restrictions concerning the palestinian authority

    Sec. 7037.  None of the funds appropriated under titles II through 
VI of this Act may be obligated or expended to create in any part of 
Jerusalem a new office of any department or agency of the United States 
Government for the purpose of conducting official United States 
Government business with the Palestinian Authority over Gaza and 
Jericho or any successor Palestinian governing entity provided for in 
the Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles:  Provided, That this 
restriction shall not apply to the acquisition of additional space for 
the existing Consulate General in Jerusalem:  Provided further, That 
meetings between officers and employees of the United States and 
officials of the Palestinian Authority, or any successor Palestinian 
governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration of 
Principles, for the purpose of conducting official United States 
Government business with such authority should continue to take place 
in locations other than Jerusalem:  Provided further, That as has been 
true in the past, officers and employees of the United States 
Government may continue to meet in Jerusalem on other subjects with 
Palestinians (including those who now occupy positions in the 
Palestinian Authority), have social contacts, and have incidental 
discussions.

 prohibition on assistance to the palestinian broadcasting corporation

    Sec. 7038.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to provide equipment, technical 
support, consulting services, or any other form of assistance to the 
Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.

                 assistance for the west bank and gaza

    Sec. 7039. (a) Oversight.--For fiscal year 2016, 30 days prior to 
the initial obligation of funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza 
Program, the Secretary of State shall certify to the Committees on 
Appropriations that procedures have been established to assure the 
Comptroller General of the United States will have access to 
appropriate United States financial information in order to review the 
uses of United States assistance for the Program funded under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the West Bank and Gaza.
    (b) Vetting.--Prior to the obligation of funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the 
West Bank and Gaza, the Secretary of State shall take all appropriate 
steps to ensure that such assistance is not provided to or through any 
individual, private or government entity, or educational institution 
that the Secretary knows or has reason to believe advocates, plans, 
sponsors, engages in, or has engaged in, terrorist activity nor, with 
respect to private entities or educational institutions, those that 
have as a principal officer of the entity's governing board or 
governing board of trustees any individual that has been determined to 
be involved in, or advocating terrorist activity or determined to be a 
member of a designated foreign terrorist organization:  Provided, That 
the Secretary of State shall, as appropriate, establish procedures 
specifying the steps to be taken in carrying out this subsection and 
shall terminate assistance to any individual, entity, or educational 
institution which the Secretary has determined to be involved in or 
advocating terrorist activity.
    (c) Prohibition.--
            (1) Recognition of acts of terrorism.--None of the funds 
        appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act for 
        assistance under the West Bank and Gaza Program may be made 
        available for the purpose of recognizing or otherwise honoring 
        individuals who commit, or have committed acts of terrorism.
            (2) Security assistance and reporting requirement.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
        made available by this or prior appropriations Acts, including 
        funds made available by transfer, may be made available for 
        obligation for security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza 
        until the Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations on the benchmarks that have been established for 
        security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza and reports on 
        the extent of Palestinian compliance with such benchmarks.
    (d) Audits by the United States Agency for International 
Development.--
            (1) The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development shall ensure that Federal or non-
        Federal audits of all contractors and grantees, and significant 
        subcontractors and sub-grantees, under the West Bank and Gaza 
        Program, are conducted at least on an annual basis to ensure, 
        among other things, compliance with this section.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act up to $500,000 
        may be used by the Office of Inspector General of the United 
        States Agency for International Development for audits, 
        inspections, and other activities in furtherance of the 
        requirements of this subsection:  Provided, That such funds are 
        in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes.
    (e) Comptroller General of the United States Audit.--Subsequent to 
the certification specified in subsection (a), the Comptroller General 
of the United States shall conduct an audit and an investigation of the 
treatment, handling, and uses of all funds for the bilateral West Bank 
and Gaza Program, including all funds provided as cash transfer 
assistance, in fiscal year 2016 under the heading ``Economic Support 
Fund'', and such audit shall address--
            (1) the extent to which such Program complies with the 
        requirements of subsections (b) and (c); and
            (2) an examination of all programs, projects, and 
        activities carried out under such Program, including both 
        obligations and expenditures.
    (f) Notification Procedures.--Funds made available in this Act for 
West Bank and Gaza shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Report.--Not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations updating the report contained in section 2106 of chapter 
2 of title II of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for 
Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, 2005 (Public Law 
109-13).

         limitation on assistance for the palestinian authority

    Sec. 7040. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be obligated or 
expended with respect to providing funds to the Palestinian Authority.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) shall not 
apply if the President certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives, the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the 
Committees on Appropriations that waiving such prohibition is important 
to the national security interest of the United States.
    (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a period of 6 months 
at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months after the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Report.--Whenever the waiver authority pursuant to subsection 
(b) is exercised, the President shall submit a report to the Committees 
on Appropriations detailing the justification for the waiver, the 
purposes for which the funds will be spent, and the accounting 
procedures in place to ensure that the funds are properly disbursed:  
Provided, That the report shall also detail the steps the Palestinian 
Authority has taken to arrest terrorists, confiscate weapons and 
dismantle the terrorist infrastructure.
    (e) Certification.--If the President exercises the waiver authority 
under subsection (b), the Secretary of State must certify and report to 
the Committees on Appropriations prior to the obligation of funds that 
the Palestinian Authority has established a single treasury account for 
all Palestinian Authority financing and all financing mechanisms flow 
through this account, no parallel financing mechanisms exist outside of 
the Palestinian Authority treasury account, and there is a single 
comprehensive civil service roster and payroll, and the Palestinian 
Authority is acting to counter incitement of violence against Israelis 
and is supporting activities aimed at promoting peace, coexistence, and 
security cooperation with Israel.
    (f) Prohibition to Hamas and the Palestine Liberation 
Organization.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated in titles III through VI 
        of this Act may be obligated for salaries of personnel of the 
        Palestinian Authority located in Gaza or may be obligated or 
        expended for assistance to Hamas or any entity effectively 
        controlled by Hamas, any power-sharing government of which 
        Hamas is a member, or that results from an agreement with Hamas 
        and over which Hamas exercises undue influence.
            (2) Notwithstanding the limitation of paragraph (1), 
        assistance may be provided to a power-sharing government only 
        if the President certifies and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such government, including all of its 
        ministers or such equivalent, has publicly accepted and is 
        complying with the principles contained in section 620K(b)(1) 
        (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended.
            (3) The President may exercise the authority in section 
        620K(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as added by the 
        Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-446) 
        with respect to this subsection.
            (4) Whenever the certification pursuant to paragraph (2) is 
        exercised, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
        Committees on Appropriations within 120 days of the 
        certification and every quarter thereafter on whether such 
        government, including all of its ministers or such equivalent 
        are continuing to comply with the principles contained in 
        section 620K(b)(1) (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961, as amended:  Provided, That the report shall also detail 
        the amount, purposes and delivery mechanisms for any assistance 
        provided pursuant to the abovementioned certification and a 
        full accounting of any direct support of such government.
            (5) None of the funds appropriated under titles III through 
        VI of this Act may be obligated for assistance for the 
        Palestine Liberation Organization.

                      middle east and north africa

    Sec. 7041. (a) Egypt.--
            (1) Certification and report.--Funds appropriated by this 
        Act that are available for assistance for the Government of 
        Egypt may only be made available if the Secretary of State 
        certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
        such government is--
                    (A) sustaining the strategic relationship with the 
                United States; and
                    (B) meeting its obligations under the 1979 Egypt-
                Israel Peace Treaty.
            (2) Economic support fund.--
                    (A) Funding and limitation.--Of the funds 
                appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic 
                Support Fund'', up to $150,000,000 may be made 
                available for assistance for Egypt, of which not less 
                than $35,000,000 should be made available for higher 
                education programs including not less than $10,000,000 
                for scholarships at not-for-profit institutions for 
                Egyptian students with high financial needs:  Provided, 
                That such funds may be made available for education and 
                economic growth programs notwithstanding any provision 
                of law restricting assistance for Egypt, and following 
                prior consultation with the Committees on 
                Appropriations:  Provided further, That such funds may 
                not be made available for cash transfer assistance or 
                budget support unless the Secretary of State certifies 
                and reports to the appropriate congressional committees 
                that the Government of Egypt is taking consistent and 
                effective steps to stabilize the economy and implement 
                market-based economic reforms.
                    (B) Withholding.--The Secretary of State shall 
                withhold from obligation an amount of such funds that 
                the Secretary determines to be equivalent to that 
                expended by the United States Government for bail, and 
                by nongovernmental organizations for legal and court 
                fees, associated with democracy-related trials in Egypt 
                until the Secretary certifies and reports to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that the Government of 
                Egypt has dismissed the convictions issued by the Cairo 
                Criminal Court on June 4, 2013, in ``Public Prosecution 
                Case No. 1110 for the Year 2012.''
            (3) Foreign military financing program.--
                    (A) Democracy and human rights certification.--Of 
                the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
                ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', up to 
                $1,300,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
                2017, may be made available for assistance for Egypt if 
                the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that the Government of 
                Egypt--
                            (i) is taking effective steps to advance 
                        democracy and human rights in Egypt, including 
                        to govern democratically and protect religious 
                        minorities and the rights of women, which are 
                        in addition to steps taken during the previous 
                        calendar year for such purposes;
                            (ii) is implementing reforms that protect 
                        freedoms of expression, association, and 
                        peaceful assembly, including the ability of 
                        civil society organizations and the media to 
                        function without interference;
                            (iii) has released all political prisoners 
                        and is providing detainees with due process of 
                        law; and
                            (iv) is conducting credible investigations 
                        and prosecutions of the use of excessive force 
                        by security forces:
                  Provided, That such funds may be transferred to an 
                interest bearing account in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
                New York, following consultation with the Committees on 
                Appropriations:  Provided further, That the 
                certification requirement of this paragraph shall not 
                apply to funds appropriated by this Act under such 
                heading for counterterrorism, border security, and 
                nonproliferation programs for Egypt, and for 
                development programs in the Sinai, which may be made 
                available notwithstanding any provision of law 
                restricting assistance for Egypt.
                    (B) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
                certification requirement in subparagraph (A) or any 
                provision of law restricting assistance for Egypt if 
                the Secretary of State determines and reports to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that to do so is important 
                to the national security interest of the United States, 
                and submits a report to such Committees containing a 
                detailed justification for the use of such waiver and 
                the reasons why any of the requirements of subparagraph 
                (A) cannot be met.
            (4) Oversight and clarification.--
                    (A) The Secretary of State shall take all 
                practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in 
                place for monitoring, oversight, and control of funds 
                made available by this subsection for assistance for 
                Egypt.
                    (B) Notwithstanding any provision of this 
                subsection, section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act 
                of 1961 shall apply to funds made available by this 
                subsection for assistance for Egypt.
    (b) Iran.--
            (1) Nuclear weapons and human rights.--
                    (A) The terms and conditions of paragraphs (1) and 
                (2) of section 7041(c) of the Department of State, 
                Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
                Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 112-74) shall 
                continue in effect during fiscal year 2016 as if part 
                of this Act.
                    (B) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
                $32,000,000 shall be made available for democracy 
                programs for Iran:  Provided, That such funds shall be 
                the responsibility of the Assistant Secretary for Near 
                Eastern Affairs, Department of State, in consultation 
                with the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human 
                Rights, and Labor, Department of State.
            (2) Reports.--
                    (A) The reporting requirements in section 7043(c) 
                of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
                Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F 
                of Public Law 111-117) shall continue in effect during 
                fiscal year 2016 as if part of this Act:  Provided, 
                That the date in subsection (c)(1) shall be deemed to 
                be ``September 30, 2016''.
                    (B) The Secretary of State shall submit to the 
                appropriate congressional committees, not later than 30 
                days after enactment of this Act and at the end of each 
                30-day period thereafter until September 30, 2016, a 
                report on the implementation of the Joint Plan of 
                Action between the P5+1 and the Government of Iran 
                concluded on November 24, 2013, and any extension of or 
                successor to that agreement, which may be submitted in 
                classified form if necessary.
    (c) Iraq.--
            (1) Purposes.--Funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for assistance for Iraq to promote governance, 
        security, and internal and regional stability, including in 
        Kurdistan and other areas impacted by the conflict in Syria, 
        and among Iraq's religious and ethnic minority populations.
            (2) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        may be made available for construction, rehabilitation, or 
        other improvements to United States diplomatic facilities in 
        Iraq on property for which no land-use agreement has been 
        entered into by the Governments of the United States and Iraq:  
        Provided, That the restrictions in this paragraph shall not 
        apply if such funds are necessary to protect United States 
        diplomatic facilities or the security, health, and welfare of 
        United States personnel.
            (3) Kurdistan regional governments security services.--
        Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
        ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' and 
        ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' that are available for 
        assistance for Iraq should be made available to enhance the 
        capacity of Kurdistan Regional Government security services and 
        for security programs in Kurdistan to address requirements 
        arising from the violence in Syria and Iraq:  Provided, That 
        the Secretary of State shall consult with the Committees on 
        Appropriations prior to obligating such funds.
    (d) Jordan.--
            (1) Memorandum of understanding on strategic partnership.--
        Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'', not less than $1,000,000,000 shall be made available 
        for assistance for Jordan, consistent with the Memorandum of 
        Understanding on Strategic Partnership between the Hashemite 
        Kingdom of Jordan and the United States, signed on March 2, 
        2015.
            (2) Additional assistance.--
                    (A) Response to the syrian crisis.--In addition to 
                amounts made available in paragraph (1), funds 
                appropriated by this Act shall be made available for 
                programs to implement the Jordan Response Plan 2015 for 
                the Syria Crisis, including assistance for host 
                communities in Jordan:  Provided, That not later than 
                180 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
                Appropriations describing the United States and other 
                donor contributions to such Plan.
                    (B) Budget support.--In addition to amounts made 
                available in paragraphs (1), 2(A), and 2(C), of the 
                funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
                ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $75,000,000 
                shall be made available for budget support for the 
                Government of Jordan:  Provided, That of the funds 
                appropriated by this Act for assistance for Jordan, not 
                less than $204,000,000 shall be made available for 
                budget support for the Government of Jordan.
                    (C) Water sector support.--In addition to amounts 
                made available in paragraphs (1), (2)(A), and (2)(B), 
                of the funds appropriated by this Act, $100,000,000 
                shall be made available for water sector support for 
                Jordan:  Provided, That the Secretary of State shall 
                consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
                obligating such funds.
    (e) Lebanon.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        may be made available for the Lebanese Internal Security Forces 
        (ISF) or the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) if the ISF or the LAF 
        is controlled by a foreign terrorist organization, as 
        designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act.
            (2) Consultation requirement.--Funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the headings ``International Narcotics Control and 
        Law Enforcement'' and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' 
        that are available for assistance for Lebanon may be made 
        available for programs and equipment for the ISF and the LAF to 
        address security and stability requirements in areas affected 
        by the conflict in Syria, following consultation with the 
        appropriate congressional committees.
            (3) Economic support fund.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are available 
        for assistance for Lebanon may be made available 
        notwithstanding section 1224 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228; 22 
        U.S.C. 2346 note).
            (4) Foreign military financing program.--In addition to the 
        activities described in paragraph (2), funds appropriated by 
        this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' for assistance for Lebanon may be made available only 
        to professionalize the LAF and to strengthen border security 
        and combat terrorism, including training and equipping the LAF 
        to secure Lebanon's borders, interdicting arms shipments, 
        preventing the use of Lebanon as a safe haven for terrorist 
        groups, and to implement United Nations Security Council 
        Resolution 1701:  Provided, That funds may not be obligated for 
        assistance for the LAF until the Secretary of State submits to 
        the Committees on Appropriations a detailed spend plan, 
        including actions to be taken to ensure equipment provided to 
        the LAF is only used for the intended purposes, except such 
        plan may not be considered as meeting the notification 
        requirements under section 7015 of this Act or under section 
        634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and shall be 
        submitted not later than September 1, 2016:  Provided further, 
        That any notification submitted pursuant to such sections shall 
        include any funds specifically intended for lethal military 
        equipment.
    (f) Libya.--
            (1) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by titles III and 
        IV of this Act, not less than $20,000,000 shall be made 
        available for assistance for Libya for programs to strengthen 
        governing institutions, improve border security, and promote 
        democracy and stability in Libya, and for activities to address 
        the humanitarian needs of the people of Libya.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) Cooperation on the september 2012 attack on 
                united states personnel and facilities.--None of the 
                funds appropriated by this Act may be made available 
                for assistance for the central Government of Libya 
                unless the Secretary of State reports to the Committees 
                on Appropriations that such government is cooperating 
                with United States Government efforts to investigate 
                and bring to justice those responsible for the attack 
                on United States personnel and facilities in Benghazi, 
                Libya in September 2012:  Provided, That the limitation 
                in this paragraph shall not apply to funds made 
                available for the purpose of protecting United States 
                Government personnel or facilities.
                    (B) Infrastructure projects.--The limitation on the 
                uses of funds in section 7041(f)(2) of the Department 
                of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
                Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-
                76) shall apply to funds appropriated by this Act that 
                are made available for assistance for Libya.
            (3) Certification requirement.--Prior to the initial 
        obligation of funds made available by this Act for assistance 
        for Libya, the Secretary of State shall certify and report to 
        the Committees on Appropriations that all practicable steps 
        have been taken to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
        monitoring, oversight, and control of funds made available by 
        this subsection for assistance for Libya.
    (g) Morocco.--
            (1)  Availability and consultation requirement.--Funds 
        appropriated under title III of this Act shall be made 
        available for assistance for the Western Sahara:  Provided, 
        That not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act and 
        prior to the obligation of such funds the Secretary of State, 
        in consultation with the Administrator of the United States 
        Agency for International Development, shall consult with the 
        Committees on Appropriations on the proposed uses of such 
        funds.
            (2) Foreign military financing program.--Funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' that are available for assistance for Morocco may 
        only be used for the purposes requested in the Congressional 
        Budget Justification, Foreign Operations, Fiscal Year 2016.
    (h) Syria.--
            (1) Non-lethal assistance.--Of the funds appropriated by 
        this Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', 
        ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', and 
        ``Peacekeeping Operations'', not less than $175,000,000 shall 
        be made available, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        for non-lethal assistance for programs to address the needs of 
        civilians affected by conflict in Syria, and for programs that 
        seek to--
                    (A) establish governance in Syria that is 
                representative, inclusive, and accountable;
                    (B) expand the role of women in negotiations to end 
                the violence and in any political transition in Syria;
                    (C) develop and implement political processes that 
                are democratic, transparent, and adhere to the rule of 
                law;
                    (D) further the legitimacy of the Syrian opposition 
                through cross-border programs;
                    (E) develop civil society and an independent media 
                in Syria;
                    (F) promote economic development in Syria;
                    (G) document, investigate, and prosecute human 
                rights violations in Syria, including through 
                transitional justice programs and support for 
                nongovernmental organizations;
                    (H) counter extremist ideologies;
                    (I) assist Syrian refugees whose education has been 
                interrupted by the ongoing conflict to complete higher 
                education requirements at regional academic 
                institutions; and
                    (J) assist vulnerable populations in Syria and in 
                neighboring countries.
            (2) Syrian organizations and strategy update.--Funds 
        appropriated by this Act that are made available for assistance 
        for Syria pursuant to the authority of this subsection shall be 
        made available for a program to strengthen the capability of 
        Syrian diaspora-led organizations and local Syrian civil 
        society organizations to address the immediate and long-term 
        needs of the Syrian people inside Syria in a manner that 
        supports the sustainability of such organizations in 
        implementing Syrian-led humanitarian and development programs 
        and the comprehensive strategy required in section 7041(i)(3) 
        of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
        Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 
        113-76):  Provided further, That not later than 30 days after 
        enactment of this Act, and prior to the initial obligation of 
        funds, the Secretary of State shall submit an update to such 
        strategy to the Committees on Appropriations, in classified 
        form if necessary.
            (3) Monitoring and oversight.--Prior to the obligation of 
        funds appropriated by this Act and made available for 
        assistance for Syria, the Secretary of State shall take all 
        practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
        monitoring, oversight, and control of such assistance inside 
        Syria:  Provided, That the Secretary of State shall promptly 
        inform the appropriate congressional committees of each 
        significant instance in which assistance provided pursuant to 
        the authority of this subsection has been compromised, to 
        include the type and amount of assistance affected, a 
        description of the incident and parties involved, and an 
        explanation of the Department of State response.
            (4) Consultation.--Funds made available pursuant to this 
        subsection may only be made available following consultation 
        with the appropriate congressional committees.
    (i) West Bank and Gaza.--
            (1) Report on assistance.--Prior to the initial obligation 
        of funds made available by this Act under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the West Bank and 
        Gaza, the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that the purpose of such assistance is to--
                    (A) advance Middle East peace;
                    (B) improve security in the region;
                    (C) continue support for transparent and 
                accountable government institutions;
                    (D) promote a private sector economy; or
                    (E) address urgent humanitarian needs.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A)(i) None of the funds appropriated under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act may be 
                made available for assistance for the Palestinian 
                Authority, if after the date of enactment of this Act--
                            (I) the Palestinians obtain the same 
                        standing as member states or full membership as 
                        a state in the United Nations or any 
                        specialized agency thereof outside an agreement 
                        negotiated between Israel and the Palestinians; 
                        or
                            (II) the Palestinians initiate an 
                        International Criminal Court (ICC) judicially 
                        authorized investigation, or actively support 
                        such an investigation, that subjects Israeli 
                        nationals to an investigation for alleged 
                        crimes against Palestinians.
                    (ii) The Secretary of State may waive the 
                restriction in clause (i) of this subparagraph 
                resulting from the application of subclause (I) of such 
                clause if the Secretary certifies to the Committees on 
                Appropriations that to do so is in the national 
                security interest of the United States, and submits a 
                report to such Committees detailing how the waiver and 
                the continuation of assistance would assist in 
                furthering Middle East peace.
                    (B)(i) The President may waive the provisions of 
                section 1003 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
                Act, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204) if 
                the President determines and certifies in writing to 
                the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the 
                President pro tempore of the Senate, and the 
                appropriate congressional committees that the 
                Palestinians have not, after the date of enactment of 
                this Act--
                            (I) obtained in the United Nations or any 
                        specialized agency thereof the same standing as 
                        member states or full membership as a state 
                        outside an agreement negotiated between Israel 
                        and the Palestinians; and
                            (II) taken any action with respect to the 
                        ICC that is intended to influence a 
                        determination by the ICC to initiate a 
                        judicially authorized investigation, or to 
                        actively support such an investigation, that 
                        subjects Israeli nationals to an investigation 
                        for alleged crimes against Palestinians.
                    (ii) Not less than 90 days after the President is 
                unable to make the certification and report pursuant to 
                clause (i) of this subparagraph, the President may 
                waive section 1003 of Public Law 100-204 if the 
                President determines and certifies in writing to the 
                Speaker of the House of Representatives, the President 
                pro tempore of the Senate, and the Committees on 
                Appropriations that the Palestinians have entered into 
                direct and meaningful negotiations with Israel:  
                Provided, That any waiver of the provisions of section 
                1003 of Public Law 100-204 under clause (i) of this 
                subparagraph or under previous provisions of law must 
                expire before the waiver under the preceding sentence 
                may be exercised.
                    (iii) Any waiver pursuant to this subparagraph 
                shall be effective for no more than a period of 6 
                months at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months 
                after the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Reduction.--The Secretary of State shall reduce the 
        amount of assistance made available by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the Palestinian Authority 
        by an amount the Secretary determines is equivalent to the 
        amount expended by the Palestinian Authority as payments for 
        acts of terrorism by individuals who are imprisoned after being 
        fairly tried and convicted for acts of terrorism and by 
        individuals who died committing acts of terrorism during the 
        previous calendar year:  Provided, That the Secretary shall 
        report to the Committees on Appropriations on the amount 
        reduced for fiscal year 2016 prior to the obligation of funds 
        for the Palestinian Authority.
            (4) Security report.--The reporting requirements contained 
        in section 1404 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 
        (Public Law 110-252) shall apply to funds made available by 
        this Act, including a description of modifications, if any, to 
        the security strategy of the Palestinian Authority.

                                 africa

    Sec. 7042. (a) Ethiopia.--
            (1) Forced evictions.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act for assistance 
                for Ethiopia may not be made available for any activity 
                that involves forced evictions.
                    (B) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct 
                the United States executive director of each 
                international financial institution to vote against 
                financing for any activity that involves forced 
                evictions.
            (2) Consultation requirement.--Programs and activities to 
        improve livelihoods shall include prior consultation with, and 
        the participation of, affected communities, including in the 
        South Omo and Gambella regions.
            (3) Foreign military financing program.--Funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' for assistance for Ethiopia may only be made 
        available for border security and counter terrorism programs, 
        support for international peacekeeping efforts, and assistance 
        for the Ethiopian Defense Command and Staff College.
    (b) Lake Chad Basin Countries.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be made available for democracy programs in Cameroon, Chad, 
Niger, and Nigeria, consistent with the requirements of section 7073 of 
this Act and following consultation with the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided, That such programs should protect freedoms 
of expression, association and religion, including for journalists, 
civil society, and opposition political parties, and should be used to 
assist the governments of such countries to strengthen accountability 
and the rule of law, including within the security forces.
    (c) Programs in Africa.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Global Health Programs'' and ``Economic Support 
        Fund'', not less than $7,000,000 shall be made available for 
        the purposes of section 7042(g)(1) of the Department of State, 
        Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
        2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``International 
        Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not less than 
        $8,000,000 shall be made available for the purposes of section 
        7042(g)(2) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
        Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public 
        Law 113-76).
            (3) Funds made available under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall 
        be programmed in a manner that leverages a United States 
        Government-wide approach to addressing shared challenges and 
        mutually beneficial opportunities, and shall be the 
        responsibility of United States Chiefs of Mission in countries 
        in Africa seeking enhanced partnerships with the United States 
        in areas of trade, investment, development, health, and 
        security.
    (d) South Sudan.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act that are made available 
        for assistance for South Sudan should--
                    (A) be prioritized for programs that respond to 
                humanitarian needs and the delivery of basic services 
                and to mitigate conflict and promote stability, 
                including to address protection needs and prevent and 
                respond to gender-based violence;
                    (B) support programs that build resilience of 
                communities to address food insecurity, maintain 
                educational opportunities, and enhance local 
                governance;
                    (C) be used to advance democracy, including support 
                for civil society, independent media, and other means 
                to strengthen the rule of law;
                    (D) support the transparent and sustainable 
                management of natural resources by assisting the 
                Government of South Sudan in conducting regular audits 
                of financial accounts, including revenues from oil and 
                gas, and the timely public disclosure of such audits; 
                and
                    (E) support the professionalization of security 
                forces, including human rights and accountability to 
                civilian authorities.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act that are 
        available for assistance for the central Government of South 
        Sudan may be made available until the Secretary of State 
        certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
        such government is taking effective steps to--
                    (A) end hostilities and pursue good faith 
                negotiations for a political settlement of the internal 
                conflict;
                    (B) provide access for humanitarian organizations;
                    (C) end the recruitment and use of child soldiers;
                    (D) protect freedoms of expression, association, 
                and assembly;
                    (E) reduce corruption related to the extraction and 
                sale of oil and gas; and
                    (F) establish democratic institutions, including 
                accountable military and police forces under civilian 
                authority.
            (3) The limitation of paragraph (2) shall not apply to--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) assistance to support South Sudan peace 
                negotiations or to advance or implement a peace 
                agreement; and
                    (C) assistance to support implementation of 
                outstanding issues of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement 
                (CPA) and mutual arrangements related to the CPA.
    (e) Sudan.--
            (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
        funds appropriated by this Act may be made available for 
        assistance for the Government of Sudan.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for the cost, as defined in section 502 of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of modifying loans and loan 
        guarantees held by the Government of Sudan, including the cost 
        of selling, reducing, or canceling amounts owed to the United 
        States, and modifying concessional loans, guarantees, and 
        credit agreements.
            (3) The limitations of paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not 
        apply to--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) assistance for democracy programs;
                    (C) assistance for the Darfur region, Southern 
                Kordofan State, Blue Nile State, other marginalized 
                areas and populations in Sudan, and Abyei; and
                    (D) assistance to support implementation of 
                outstanding issues of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement 
                (CPA), mutual arrangements related to post-referendum 
                issues associated with the CPA, or any other 
                internationally recognized viable peace agreement in 
                Sudan.
    (f) Victims of Violence and Violent Extremist Groups.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act that are made available 
        for assistance for Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria shall be 
        made available for assistance for women and girls who are 
        targeted by the terrorist organization Boko Haram, consistent 
        with the provisions of section 7059 of this Act, and in 
        consultation with the governments of such countries.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $10,000,000 shall be 
        made available for programs and activities in areas affected by 
        the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) consistent with the goals of 
        the Lord's Resistance Army and Disarmament and Northern Uganda 
        Recovery Act (Public Law 111-172), including to improve 
        physical access, telecommunications infrastructure, and early-
        warning mechanisms and to support the disarmament, 
        demobilization, and reintegration of former LRA combatants, 
        especially child soldiers.
            (3) Funds made available by this Act for assistance for the 
        Central African Republic shall be made available for 
        reconciliation and peacebuilding programs, including activities 
        to promote inter-faith dialogue at the national and local 
        levels, and for programs to prevent crimes against humanity.
    (g) Zimbabwe.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States executive director of each international financial 
        institution to vote against any extension by the respective 
        institution of any loan or grant to the Government of Zimbabwe, 
        except to meet basic human needs or to promote democracy, 
        unless the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that the rule of law has been 
        restored, including respect for ownership and title to 
        property, and freedoms of expression, association, and 
        assembly.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
        made available for assistance for the central Government of 
        Zimbabwe, except for health and education, unless the Secretary 
        of State certifies and reports as required in paragraph (1), 
        and funds may be made available for macroeconomic growth 
        assistance if the Secretary reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such government is implementing transparent 
        fiscal policies, including public disclosure of revenues from 
        the extraction of natural resources.

                       east asia and the pacific

    Sec. 7043. (a) Asia Rebalancing Initiative.--Except for paragraphs 
(1)(C), (4), (5)(B) and (C), and 6(B), section 7043(a) of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall 
continue in effect during fiscal year 2016 as if part of this Act.
    (b) Burma.--
            (1) Free and fair national elections.--Notwithstanding any 
        provision of this subsection, of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
        ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' for 
        assistance for Burma, $15,000,000 shall be withheld from 
        obligation until the Secretary of State certifies and reports 
        to the appropriate congressional committees that the Government 
        of Burma, including the armed forces, is--
                    (A) furthering democratic reforms in an inclusive 
                and transparent manner that includes the participation 
                of civil society, opposition political parties, and 
                parliament;
                    (B) taking effective steps to hold free and fair 
                elections consistent with internationally recognized 
                standards for democratic elections, including those 
                identified by the National League for Democracy in its 
                January 13, 2015 statement on elections;
                    (C) supporting the independence of the Union 
                Election Commission, and refraining from using official 
                resources for electioneering;
                    (D) promoting and protecting human rights, 
                particularly for Rohingya, Kachin, and other religious 
                and ethnic groups;
                    (E) releasing all political prisoners; and
                    (F) fulfilling international commitments and reform 
                pledges outlined in Myanmar President Office Press 
                Release No. 2/2012.
            (2) Bilateral economic assistance.--(A) Funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for 
        assistance for Burma may be made available notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, except for this subsection, and 
        following consultation with the appropriate congressional 
        committees.
            (B) Funds appropriated under title III of this Act for 
        assistance for Burma--
                    (i) may not be made available for budget support 
                for the Government of Burma;
                    (ii) shall be provided to strengthen civil society 
                organizations in Burma, including as core support for 
                such organizations;
                    (iii) shall be made available for the 
                implementation of the democracy and human rights 
                strategy required by section 7043(b)(3)(A) of the 
                Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
                Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public 
                Law 113-76);
                    (iv) shall be made available for community-based 
                organizations operating in Thailand to provide food, 
                medical, and other humanitarian assistance to 
                internally displaced persons in eastern Burma, in 
                addition to assistance for Burmese refugees from funds 
                appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Migration 
                and Refugee Assistance'';
                    (v) shall be made available for programs to promote 
                ethnic and religious tolerance, including in Rakhine 
                and Kachin states;
                    (vi) may not be made available to any successor or 
                affiliated organization of the State Peace and 
                Development Council (SPDC) controlled by former SPDC 
                members that promotes the repressive policies of the 
                SPDC, or to any individual or organization credibly 
                alleged to have committed gross violations or human 
                rights, including against Rohingya and other minority 
                groups; and
                    (vii) may be made available for programs 
                administrated by the Office of Transition Initiatives, 
                United States Agency for International Development 
                (USAID), or ethnic groups and civil society in Burma to 
                help sustain ceasefire agreements and further prospects 
                for reconciliation and peace, which may include support 
                to representatives of ethnic armed groups for this 
                purpose.
            (3) International security assistance.--None of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the headings ``International 
        Military Education and Training'' and ``Foreign Military 
        Financing Program'' may be made available for assistance for 
        Burma:  Provided, That if the Secretary of State makes the 
        certification and report required in paragraph (1), the 
        Department of State may continue consultations with the armed 
        forces of Burma only on human rights and disaster response in a 
        manner consistent with the prior fiscal year, and following 
        consultation with the appropriate congressional committees.
            (4) Multilateral assistance.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
        should instruct the United States executive director of each 
        international financial institution to use the voice and vote 
        of the United States to support projects in Burma only if such 
        projects--
                    (A) promote accountability and transparency, 
                including on-site monitoring throughout the life of the 
                project;
                    (B) are developed and carried out in accordance 
                with best practices regarding environmental 
                conservation; social and cultural protection and 
                empowerment of local populations, particularly ethnic 
                nationalities; and extraction of resources;
                    (C) do not promote the displacement of local 
                populations without appropriate consultation, harm 
                mitigation and compensation, and do not provide 
                incentives for, or facilitate, the forced migration of 
                indigenous communities; and
                    (D) do not partner with or otherwise involve 
                military-owned enterprises or state-owned enterprises 
                associated with the military.
            (5) Assessment.--Not later than 180 days after enactment of 
        this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
        initiate an assessment of democracy programs in Burma conducted 
        by the Department of State and USAID, including the strategy 
        for such programs, and programmatic implementation and results: 
         Provided, That of the funds appropriated by this Act for 
        assistance for Burma, up to $100,000 shall be made available to 
        the Comptroller for such assessment.
            (6) Programs, position, and responsibilities.--
                    (A) Any new program or activity in Burma initiated 
                in fiscal year 2016 shall be subject to prior 
                consultation with the appropriate congressional 
                committees.
                    (B) Section 7043(b)(7) of the Department of State, 
                Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
                Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall 
                continue in effect during fiscal year 2016 as if part 
                of this Act.
                    (C) The United States Chief of Mission in Burma, in 
                consultation with the Assistant Secretary for the 
                Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
                Department of State, shall be responsible for democracy 
                programs in Burma.
    (c) Cambodia.--
            (1) Democracy programs.--Of the funds appropriated under 
        title III of this Act, not less than $19,750,000 shall be made 
        available for democracy programs in Cambodia, including to 
        promote Internet freedom:  Provided, That the decisions on the 
        uses of such funds shall be the responsibility of the Assistant 
        Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of 
        State, in consultation with the United States Chief of Mission 
        in Cambodia.
            (2) Khmer rouge research and education programs.--None of 
        the funds appropriated by this Act may be made available for a 
        United States contribution to the Extraordinary Chambers in the 
        Court of Cambodia (ECCC):  Provided, That funds made available 
        by this Act for democracy programs in Cambodia shall be made 
        available for research and education programs associated with 
        the Khmer Rouge genocide in Cambodia:  Provided further, That 
        the Secretary of State shall continue to consult with the 
        Principal Donors Group on reimbursements to the Documentation 
        Center of Cambodia for costs incurred in support of the ECCC.
    (d) North Korea.--
            (1) Broadcasts.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``International Broadcasting Operations'' shall be made 
        available to maintain broadcasts into North Korea at levels 
        consistent with the prior fiscal year.
            (2) Refugees.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' shall be made 
        available for assistance for refugees from North Korea, 
        including protection activities in the People's Republic of 
        China and other countries in the Asia region.
            (3) Database and report.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Democracy Fund'' that are made available to 
        the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of 
        State, shall be made available to maintain a database of 
        prisons and gulags in North Korea, in accordance with section 
        7032(i) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
        Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public 
        Law 113-76):  Provided, That not later than 30 days after 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
        report to the Committees on Appropriations describing the 
        sources of information and format of such database.
            (4) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
        Fund'' may be made available for assistance for the Government 
        of North Korea.
    (e) People's Republic of China.--
            (1) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds 
        appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
        Programs'' in this Act may be obligated or expended for 
        processing licenses for the export of satellites of United 
        States origin (including commercial satellites and satellite 
        components) to the People's Republic of China (PRC) unless, at 
        least 15 days in advance, the Committees on Appropriations are 
        notified of such proposed action.
            (2) People's liberation army.--The terms and requirements 
        of section 620(h) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall 
        apply to foreign assistance projects or activities of the 
        People's Liberation Army (PLA) of the PRC, to include such 
        projects or activities by any entity that is owned or 
        controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA:  Provided, That 
        none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
        pursuant to this Act may be used to finance any grant, 
        contract, or cooperative agreement with the PLA, or any entity 
        that the Secretary of State has reason to believe is owned or 
        controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA.
            (3) Programs to promote and strengthen transparency, 
        accountability, and civic advocacy.--Of the funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not 
        less than $15,000,000 shall be made available for democracy and 
        environment programs for the PRC:  Provided, That the strategic 
        objective of such programs shall be to promote and strengthen 
        transparency, accountability, and civic advocacy at the 
        grassroots and national levels in the PRC:  Provided further, 
        That none of such funds may be made available for assistance 
        for the Government of the PRC.
            (4) Counter influence programs.--Funds appropriated by this 
        Act for public diplomacy under title I and for assistance under 
        titles III and IV shall be made available to counter the 
        influence of the PRC, in accordance with the strategy required 
        by section 7043(e)(3) of the Department of State, Foreign 
        Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 
        (division K of Public Law 113-76), following consultation with 
        the Committees on Appropriations.
            (5) Cost-matching requirement.--Section 7032(f) of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) 
        shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2016 as if part of 
        this Act.
            (6) Hong kong report.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to 
        the appropriate congressional committees the report required 
        under section 301 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 
        1992 (22 U.S.C. 5731):  Provided, That such report shall be 
        made publicly available on the Department of State Web site.
    (f) Tibet.--
            (1) Financing of projects in tibet.--The Secretary of the 
        Treasury should instruct the United States executive director 
        of each international financial institution to use the voice 
        and vote of the United States to support financing of projects 
        in Tibet if such projects do not provide incentives for the 
        migration and settlement of non-Tibetans into Tibet or 
        facilitate the transfer of ownership of Tibetan land and 
        natural resources to non-Tibetans, are based on a thorough 
        needs-assessment, foster self-sufficiency of the Tibetan people 
        and respect Tibetan culture and traditions, and are subject to 
        effective monitoring.
            (2) Programs for tibetan communities.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Economic Support Fund''$8,000,000 shall be 
        made available to nongovernmental organizations to support 
        activities which preserve cultural traditions and promote 
        sustainable development, education, and environmental 
        conservation in Tibetan communities in the Tibetan Autonomous 
        Region and in other Tibetan communities in China.
            (3) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading, ``Economic Support Fund'' not less than $6,000,000 
        shall be made available for programs to promote and preserve 
        Tibetan culture, development, and the resilience of Tibetan 
        communities in India and Nepal, and to assist in the education 
        and development of the next generation of Tibetan leaders from 
        such communities:  Provided, That such funds are in addition to 
        amounts made available in paragraph (2) for programs inside 
        Tibet.
    (g) Vietnam.--
            (1) Dioxin remediation.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
        $25,000,000 shall be made available for remediation of dioxin 
        contaminated sites in Vietnam and may be made available for 
        assistance for the Government of Vietnam, including the 
        military, for such purposes.
            (2) Health and disability programs.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Development 
        Assistance'', not less than $7,000,000 shall be made available 
        for health and disability programs in areas sprayed with Agent 
        Orange and otherwise contaminated with dioxin, to assist 
        individuals with severe upper or lower body mobility impairment 
        and/or cognitive or developmental disabilities.

                         south and central asia

    Sec. 7044. (a) Afghanistan.--
            (1) Diplomatic operations.--
                    (A) Facilities.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular 
                Programs'', ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
                Maintenance'', and ``Operating Expenses'' that are 
                available for construction and renovation of United 
                States Government facilities in Afghanistan may not be 
                made available if the purpose is to accommodate Federal 
                employee positions or to expand aviation facilities or 
                assets above those notified by the Department of State 
                and the United States Agency for International 
                Development (USAID) to the Committees on 
                Appropriations, or contractors in addition to those in 
                place on the date of enactment of this Act:  Provided, 
                That the limitations in this paragraph shall not apply 
                if funds are necessary to implement plans for 
                accommodating other United States Government agencies 
                under Chief of Mission authority per section 3927 of 
                title 22, United States Code, or to protect such 
                facilities or the security, health, and welfare of 
                United States Government personnel.
                    (B) Personnel and offices reports.--
                            (i) Not later than 30 days after enactment 
                        of this Act and every 120 days thereafter until 
                        September 30, 2016, the Secretary of State 
                        shall submit a report, in classified form if 
                        necessary, to the appropriate congressional 
                        committees detailing by agency the number of 
                        personnel present in Afghanistan under Chief of 
                        Mission authority per section 3927 of title 22, 
                        United States Code, at the end of the 120 day 
                        period preceding the submission of such report: 
                         Provided, That such report shall also include 
                        the number of locally employed staff and 
                        contractors supporting United States Embassy 
                        operations in Afghanistan during the reporting 
                        period.
                            (ii) Not later than 90 days after enactment 
                        of this Act, the Secretary of State and the 
                        USAID Administrator shall each submit to the 
                        appropriate congressional committees transition 
                        plans for the Office of the Special 
                        Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, 
                        Department of State, and the Office of 
                        Afghanistan and Pakistan Affairs, USAID, 
                        respectively:  Provided, That such plans shall 
                        include a timeline, estimated costs, and the 
                        personnel requirements for the merger of such 
                        offices into the relevant bureaus and offices 
                        of the Department of State and USAID.
            (2) Assistance and conditions.--
                    (A) Funding and limitations.--Funds appropriated by 
                this Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' 
                and ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement'' may be made available for assistance for 
                Afghanistan:  Provided, That such funds may not be 
                obligated for any program, project, or activity that--
                            (i) includes the participation of any 
                        Afghan individual or organization that the 
                        Secretary of State determines to be involved in 
                        corrupt practices or violation of human rights;
                            (ii) cannot be sustained, as appropriate, 
                        by the Government of Afghanistan or other 
                        Afghan entity;
                            (iii) is inaccessible for the purposes of 
                        conducting regular oversight in accordance with 
                        applicable Federal statutes and regulations; 
                        and
                            (iv) initiates any new, major 
                        infrastructure development.
                    (B) Certification and report.--Prior to the initial 
                obligation of funds made available by this Act under 
                the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
                ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' 
                for assistance for the Government of Afghanistan, the 
                Secretary of State shall certify and report to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that the Government of the 
                United States, after consultation with the Government 
                of Afghanistan, has established--
                            (i) goals and benchmarks for the specific 
                        uses of such funds;
                            (ii) conditions that increase the 
                        transparency and accountability of the 
                        Government of Afghanistan for funds obligated 
                        under the New Development Partnership;
                            (iii) monitoring and oversight frameworks 
                        in accordance with all applicable audit 
                        policies of the Department of State and USAID; 
                        and
                            (iv) processes for the public reporting of 
                        the Government of Afghanistan's national 
                        budget, including revenues and expenditures.
                    (C) Waiver.--The Secretary of State, after 
                consultation with the Secretary of Defense, may waive 
                the certification requirement of subparagraph (B) if 
                the Secretary determines that to do so is important to 
                the national security interest of the United States and 
                the Secretary submits a report to the Committees on 
                Appropriations, in classified form if necessary, on the 
                justification for the waiver and the reasons why any 
                part of the certification requirement of subparagraph 
                (B) has not been met.
                    (D) Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act that 
                are made available for assistance for Afghanistan shall 
                be made available in the following manner--
                            (i) not less than $50,000,000 shall be made 
                        available for rule of law programs, the 
                        decisions for which shall be the responsibility 
                        of the Chief of Mission, in consultation with 
                        other appropriate United States Government 
                        officials in Afghanistan;
                            (ii) funds may be made available for an 
                        endowment to empower women and girls, and shall 
                        be made available for programs that protect the 
                        rights of women and promote the political and 
                        economic empowerment of women, including their 
                        meaningful inclusion in political processes:  
                        Provided, That such assistance to promote 
                        economic empowerment of women shall made 
                        available as grants to Afghan and international 
                        organizations, to the maximum extent 
                        practicable;
                            (iii) funds shall be made available for 
                        programs in Central and South Asia to expand 
                        linkages between Afghanistan and countries in 
                        the region, subject to the regular notification 
                        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations; 
                        and
                            (iv) funds may be made available to assist 
                        the Government of Afghanistan to increase 
                        revenue collection and expenditure.
            (3) Reporting requirements.--
                    (A) Goals and benchmarks.--Not later than 90 days 
                after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State 
                shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
                committees a report describing the goals and benchmarks 
                required in clause (2)(B)(i):  Provided, That not later 
                than 6 months after the submission of such report and 
                every 6 months thereafter until September 30, 2017, the 
                Secretary of State shall submit a report to such 
                committees on the status of achieving such goals and 
                benchmarks:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
                State should suspend assistance for the Government of 
                Afghanistan if any report required by this paragraph 
                indicates that Afghanistan is failing to make 
                measurable progress in meeting such goals and 
                benchmarks.
                    (B) Corruption and criminal prosecutions.--Not 
                later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, the 
                Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
                congressional committees a report detailing steps taken 
                by the Government of Afghanistan to combat corruption 
                and prosecute individuals alleged to be involved in 
                illegal activities in Afghanistan.
            (4) Authorities.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under title III 
                through VI that are made available for assistance for 
                Afghanistan may be made available--
                            (i) notwithstanding section 7012 of this 
                        Act or any similar provision of law and section 
                        660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; and
                            (ii) for reconciliation programs and 
                        disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration 
                        activities for former combatants who have 
                        renounced violence against the Government of 
                        Afghanistan, including as a United States 
                        contribution to the Afghanistan Reconstruction 
                        Trust Fund and an internationally managed fund 
                        for such purposes, subject to the regular 
                        notification procedures of the Committees on 
                        Appropriations.
                    (B) Section 7046(a)(2)(A) of the Department of 
                State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
                Appropriations Act, 2012, (division I of Public Law 
                112-74) shall apply to funds appropriated by this Act 
                for assistance for Afghanistan.
                    (C) Section 1102(c) of the Supplemental 
                Appropriations Act, 2009 (title XI of Public Law 111-
                32) shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2016 as 
                if part of this Act.
    (b) Bangladesh.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Development Assistance'' that are made available for assistance for 
Bangladesh shall be made available for programs to improve labor 
conditions by strengthening the capacity of independent workers' 
organizations in Bangladesh's readymade garment, shrimp, and fish 
export sectors.
    (c) Nepal.--
            (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under titles III and IX, not less than 
        $150,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for Nepal 
        for earthquake relief, recovery, and reconstruction programs:  
        Provided, That such amounts shall be in addition to funds made 
        available by this Act for development and democracy programs in 
        Nepal:  Provided further, That funds made available for 
        earthquake relief, recovery, and reconstruction programs 
        should--
                    (A) target affected communities on an equitable 
                basis;
                    (B) promote political reforms, as appropriate, 
                including to strengthen institutions and constitutional 
                processes; and
                    (C) include sufficient oversight mechanisms, to 
                include the participation of civil society 
                organizations.
            (2) Foreign military financing program.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' shall 
                only be made available for humanitarian and disaster 
                relief and reconstruction activities in Nepal, and in 
                support of international peacekeeping operations:  
                Provided, That any additional uses of such funds may 
                only be made available if the Secretary of State 
                certifies and reports to the Committees on 
                Appropriations that the Government of Nepal is 
                investigating and prosecuting violations of human 
                rights and the law of war, and the Nepal army is 
                cooperating fully with civilian judicial authorities on 
                such efforts.
                    (B) Of the funds appropriated under titles IV and 
                VIII of this Act and prior Acts making appropriations 
                for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
                related programs under the heading ``Foreign Military 
                Financing Program'' for assistance for Pakistan, up to 
                $36,000,000 may be made available for the purchase and 
                operation of aircraft for the Government of Nepal for 
                the purposes of disaster response and preparedness:  
                Provided, That such funds shall be subject to prior 
                consultation with the Committees on Appropriations.
    (d) Pakistan.--
            (1) Certification requirement.--None of the funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act under the 
        headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``International Narcotics 
        Control and Law Enforcement'', and ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' for assistance for the Government of Pakistan may be 
        made available unless the Secretary of State certifies and 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government 
        of Pakistan is--
                    (A) cooperating with the United States in 
                counterterrorism efforts against the Haqqani Network, 
                the Quetta Shura Taliban, Lashkar e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-
                Mohammed, Al-Qaeda, and other domestic and foreign 
                terrorist organizations, including taking effective 
                steps to end support for such groups and prevent them 
                from basing and operating in Pakistan and carrying out 
                cross border attacks into neighboring countries;
                    (B) not supporting terrorist activities against 
                United States or coalition forces in Afghanistan, and 
                Pakistan's military and intelligence agencies are not 
                intervening extra-judicially into political and 
                judicial processes in Pakistan;
                    (C) dismantling improvised explosive device (IED) 
                networks and interdicting precursor chemicals used in 
                the manufacture of IEDs;
                    (D) preventing the proliferation of nuclear-related 
                material and expertise;
                    (E) issuing visas in a timely manner for United 
                States visitors engaged in counterterrorism efforts and 
                assistance programs in Pakistan; and
                    (F) providing humanitarian organizations access to 
                detainees, internally displaced persons, and other 
                Pakistani civilians affected by the conflict.
            (2) Waiver.--The Secretary of State, after consultation 
        with the Secretary of Defense, may waive the certification 
        requirement of paragraph (1) if the Secretary of State 
        determines that to do so is important to the national security 
        interest of the United States and the Secretary submits a 
        report to the Committees on Appropriations, in classified form 
        if necessary, on the justification for the waiver and the 
        reasons why any part of the certification requirement of 
        paragraph (1) has not been met.
            (3) Assistance.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for 
                assistance for Pakistan may be made available only to 
                support counterterrorism and counterinsurgency 
                capabilities in Pakistan.
                    (B) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
                ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and 
                Related Programs'' that are available for assistance 
                for Pakistan shall be made available to interdict 
                precursor materials from Pakistan to Afghanistan that 
                are used to manufacture IEDs, including calcium 
                ammonium nitrate; to support programs to train border 
                and customs officials in Pakistan and Afghanistan; and 
                for agricultural extension programs that encourage 
                alternative fertilizer use among Pakistani farmers.
                    (C) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made 
                available for assistance for infrastructure projects in 
                Pakistan shall be implemented in a manner consistent 
                with section 507(6) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
                2467(6)).
                    (D) Funds appropriated by this Act under titles III 
                and IV for assistance for Pakistan may be made 
                available notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
                except for this subsection and section 620M of the 
                Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
                    (E) Of the funds appropriated under titles III and 
                IV of this Act that are made available for assistance 
                for Pakistan, $33,000,000 shall be withheld from 
                obligation until the Secretary of State reports to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that Dr. Shakil Afridi has 
                been released from prison and cleared of all charges 
                relating to the assistance provided to the United 
                States in locating Osama bin Laden.
            (4) Scholarships for women.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made 
        available for assistance for Pakistan shall be made available 
        to increase the number of scholarships for women under the 
        Merit and Needs-Based Scholarship Program during fiscal year 
        2016:  Provided, That not less than 50 percent of the 
        scholarships available under such Program should be awarded to 
        Pakistani women.
            (5) Reports.--
                    (A)(i) The spend plan required by section 7076 of 
                this Act for assistance for Pakistan shall include 
                achievable and sustainable goals, benchmarks for 
                measuring progress, and expected results regarding 
                combating poverty and furthering development in 
                Pakistan, countering extremism, and establishing 
                conditions conducive to the rule of law and transparent 
                and accountable governance:  Provided, That such 
                benchmarks may incorporate those required in title III 
                of the Enhanced Partnership with Pakistan Act of 2009 
                (22 U.S.C. 8441 et seq.), as appropriate:  Provided 
                further, That not later than 6 months after submission 
                of such spend plan, and each 6 months thereafter until 
                September 30, 2017, the Secretary of State shall submit 
                a report to the Committees on Appropriations on the 
                status of achieving the goals and benchmarks in such 
                plan.
                    (ii) The Secretary of State should suspend 
                assistance for the Government of Pakistan if any report 
                required by clause (i) indicates that Pakistan is 
                failing to make measurable progress in meeting such 
                goals or benchmarks.
                    (B) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
                Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to 
                the Committees on Appropriations detailing the costs 
                and objectives associated with significant 
                infrastructure projects supported by the United States 
                in Pakistan, and an assessment of the extent to which 
                such projects achieve such objectives.
            (6) Oversight.--The Secretary of State shall take all 
        practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
        monitoring, oversight, and control of funds made available by 
        this subsection for assistance for Pakistan.
    (e) Sri Lanka.--
            (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the headings ``Development 
        Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
        $40,417,000 shall be made available for assistance for Sri 
        Lanka for democracy and economic development programs, 
        particularly in areas recovering from ethnic and religious 
        conflict:  Provided, That such funds shall be made available 
        for programs to assist in the identification and resolution of 
        cases of missing persons.
            (2) Certification.--Funds appropriated by this Act for 
        assistance for the central Government of Sri Lanka may be made 
        available only if the Secretary of State certifies and reports 
        to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government of Sri 
        Lanka is--
                    (A) addressing the underlying causes of conflict in 
                Sri Lanka; and
                    (B) increasing accountability and transparency in 
                governance.
            (3) International security assistance.--None of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military 
        Financing Program'' may be made available for assistance for 
        Sri Lanka:  Provided, That funds appropriated by this Act under 
        the heading ``International Military Education and Training'' 
        may only be made available for training related to 
        international peacekeeping operations and expanded IMET:  
        Provided further, That funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Peacekeeping Operations'' may only be made available 
        for training related to international peacekeeping operations.
    (f) Regional Programs.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Afghanistan and 
        Pakistan may be provided, notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law that restricts assistance to foreign countries, for 
        cross border stabilization and development programs between 
        Afghanistan and Pakistan, or between either country and the 
        Central Asian countries.
            (2) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
        ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' and 
        ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' that are 
        available for assistance for countries in South and Central 
        Asia shall be made available to enhance the recruitment, 
        retention, and professionalism of women in the judiciary, 
        police, and other security forces, of which $5,000,000 shall be 
        made available for such purposes in Pakistan.

                           western hemisphere

    Sec. 7045. (a) Support for the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity 
in the Northern Triangle of Central America.--
            (1) Assistance.--Subject to the requirements of this 
        subsection, funds appropriated by this Act shall be made 
        available to support implementation of the Plan of the Alliance 
        for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle of Central America (the 
        Plan), established by the governments of El Salvador, 
        Guatemala, and Honduras in cooperation with the Inter-American 
        Bank, through the United States Strategy (the Strategy) for 
        Engagement in Central America, only as follows--
                    (A) up to $13,000,000 may be made available under 
                the heading ``Global Health Programs'' for assistance 
                for Guatemala;
                    (B) up to $347,190,000 may be made available under 
                the heading ``Development Assistance'', including for 
                assistance for Nicaragua;
                    (C) up to $138,500,000 may be made available under 
                the heading ``Economic Support Fund;
                    (D) up to $155,000,000 may be made available under 
                the heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement'', including for the Central America 
                Regional Security Initiative;
                    (E) up to $500,000 may be made available under the 
                heading ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining 
                and Related Programs'' for assistance for Panama;
                    (F) up to $3,907,000 may be made available under 
                the heading ``International Military Education and 
                Training'', including for assistance for Belize, Costa 
                Rica, and Panama;
                    (G) up to $15,225,000 may be made available under 
                the heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', 
                including for assistance for Belize, Costa Rica, and 
                Panama; and
                    (H) up to $2,000,000 may be made available under 
                the heading ``Overseas Private Investment Corporation'' 
                for regional programs.
            (2) Pre-obligation conditions.--
                    (A) Prior to the obligation of funds made available 
                pursuant to subparagraph (1), the Secretary of State 
                shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations a 
                multi-year spend plan specifying the proposed uses of 
                such funds in each country and the objectives, 
                indicators, and a timeline to measure progress in 
                implementing the Strategy, which shall include programs 
                to empower local communities and civil society 
                organizations (including indigenous and other 
                marginalized groups) to address the causes of poverty 
                and violence, and the amount made available from prior 
                Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
                foreign operations, and related programs for projects 
                and activities related to the Strategy:  Provided, That 
                such spend plan shall also include a description of how 
                such assistance will complement and leverage funds 
                allocated by each government, the Inter-American 
                Development Bank, and other donors to implement the 
                Plan.
                    (B) Prior to the obligation of 75 percent of such 
                funds for assistance for the central governments of El 
                Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, the Secretary shall 
                certify and report to the appropriate congressional 
                committees that such government is taking effective 
                steps to--
                            (i) support transparency and combat 
                        corruption in coordination with relevant 
                        international entities, including reforming 
                        bank secrecy laws and strengthening anti-money 
                        laundering laws, and with respect to the 
                        Government of Guatemala, such steps shall 
                        include the approval by the Congress of reforms 
                        to the Electoral and Political Parties Law 
                        proposed by the Supreme Electoral Tribunal, and 
                        the investigation and prosecution by the Public 
                        Ministry, the Supreme Court, and the 
                        Constitutional Court of government employees 
                        and high ranking political appointees credibly 
                        alleged to be involved in corruption;
                            (ii) establish and implement specific 
                        institutional and legal reforms, policies, and 
                        programs addressing the causes of poverty, 
                        violence, and corruption in such country;
                            (iii) create a professional, accountable 
                        civilian police force and end the role of the 
                        military in internal policing;
                            (iv) protect the rights of political 
                        opposition parties, journalists, trade 
                        unionists, and human rights defenders to 
                        operate without interference;
                            (v) prosecute and punish in civilian courts 
                        members of security forces who violate human 
                        rights;
                            (vi) protect and promote democracy, 
                        including implementing reforms to protect the 
                        independence and improve the professionalism of 
                        the judiciary, and cooperating with the Inter-
                        American Commission on Human Rights, the Inter-
                        American Court on Human Rights, and 
                        international commissions against impunity, as 
                        appropriate;
                            (vii) reform tax laws and enforce tax 
                        collection, strengthen customs agencies, and 
                        match, on at least a dollar-for-dollar basis, 
                        the amounts to be expended for the projects and 
                        activities funded by this Act in support of the 
                        Strategy;
                            (viii) resolve commercial disputes in a 
                        timely manner, including the confiscation of 
                        real property, between United States entities 
                        and the governments of such countries;
                            (ix) establish an autonomous public 
                        accountable entity to oversee, manage, and 
                        implement the Plan, similar to management 
                        entities established to support Millennium 
                        Challenge Corporation Compacts; and
                            (x) provide access to all available sources 
                        of energy, especially for individuals who lack 
                        affordable and reliable electricity.
                    (C) Concurrent with the submission of the 
                certification required in paragraph (B), the Secretary 
                of State shall certify and report to the appropriate 
                congressional committees that representatives of local 
                communities and civil society organizations (including 
                indigenous and other marginalized groups) in the 
                respective country are consulted in the design, and 
                participate in the implementation and evaluation of, 
                projects and activities in support of the Strategy that 
                affect them.
            (3) Periodic review and suspension of assistance.--Not 
        later than 120 days after enactment of this Act, and every 120 
        days thereafter until September 30, 2017, the Secretary of 
        State shall review the progress of such governments in meeting 
        the objectives and indicators required in paragraph (2)(B) and 
        shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        report assessing such progress:  Provided, That if the 
        Secretary of State is unable to determine that sufficient 
        progress has been made in meeting the requirements of an 
        objective or indicator, the Secretary shall suspend assistance 
        for programs supporting such objective or indicator, and shall 
        notify such committees in writing of such action:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may resume funding for such 
        programs only after the Secretary certifies to such committees 
        that corrective measures have been identified and implemented.
            (4) Commercial disputes report.--Not later than 90 days 
        after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
        submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
        detailing the economic investment conditions in El Salvador, 
        Guatemala, and Honduras, and an assessment of outstanding 
        commercial disputes, including the confiscation of real 
        property, between United States entities and the governments of 
        such countries.
            (5) Change of government.--The Secretary of State shall, 
        following a change of government in El Salvador, Guatemala, or 
        Honduras, certify and report to the appropriate congressional 
        committees that any new government has committed to taking the 
        effective steps enumerated in the pre-obligation requirements 
        in paragraph (2):  Provided, That if the Secretary is unable to 
        make such a certification in a timely manner, assistance made 
        available under this subsection shall be suspended until such 
        time as the certification can be made.
            (6) Programs and transfer of funds.--
                    (A) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement'' for the Central America Regional Security 
                Initiative, not less than $2,000,000 shall be made 
                available, after consultation with the Committees on 
                Appropriations, for a United States contribution to an 
                international commission against impunity in Honduras, 
                if such a commission is established.
                    (B) The Department of State and the United States 
                Agency for International Development (USAID) may, 
                following consultation with the appropriate 
                congressional committees, transfer funds made available 
                by this Act under the heading ``Development 
                Assistance'' to the Inter-American Development Bank and 
                the Inter-American Foundation for technical and other 
                assistance in support of programs carried out in El 
                Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras under the Plan.
    (b) Colombia.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act and made available to 
        the Department of State for assistance for the Government of 
        Colombia may be used to support a unified campaign against 
        narcotics trafficking, organizations designated as Foreign 
        Terrorist Organizations, and other criminal or illegal armed 
        groups, and to take actions to protect human health and welfare 
        in emergency circumstances, including undertaking rescue 
        operations:  Provided, That the first through fifth provisos of 
        paragraph (1), and paragraph (3) of section 7045(a) of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 112-74) 
        shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2016 and shall 
        apply to funds appropriated by this Act and made available for 
        assistance for Colombia as if included in this Act:  Provided 
        further, That of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $133,000,000 
        shall be apportioned directly to USAID.
            (2)(A) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for assistance 
        for Colombia, 19 percent shall be withheld from obligation 
        unless the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that--
                    (i) cases involving members of the Colombian 
                military who have been credibly alleged to have 
                violated human rights, including through command 
                responsibility, are subject only to civilian 
                jurisdiction, and that the Colombian military is 
                cooperating with civilian authorities in such cases, 
                and no such military officers hold senior positions in 
                the chain of command;
                    (ii) the Government of Colombia is upholding its 
                international obligations by prosecuting persons 
                responsible for crimes against humanity, war crimes, 
                and other gross violations of human rights, and is not 
                offering amnesty to such persons; and
                    (iii) the Government of Colombia is dismantling 
                illegal armed groups; taking effective steps to protect 
                the rights of human rights defenders, journalists, 
                trade unionists, and other social activists; and 
                respecting the rights and territory of indigenous and 
                Afro-Colombian communities.
            (B) The limitations of this paragraph shall not apply to 
        funds made available under such heading for aviation 
        instruction and maintenance, and maritime security programs.
            (3) The Secretary of State shall consult with the 
        appropriation congressional committees on the uses of 
        assistance for Colombia made available by this Act under such 
        heading for programs that support and further peace talks.
    (c) Cuba.--
            (1) Democracy programs and transfer authority.--Of the 
        funds appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic 
        Support Fund'', $15,000,000 shall be made available for 
        democracy programs for Cuba:  Provided, That a portion of such 
        funds may be transferred to, and merged with, funds made 
        available by this Act under the heading ``National Endowment 
        for Democracy'', following consultation with the appropriate 
        congressional committees.
            (2) Private entrepreneur programs and limitation.--Of the 
        funds appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic 
        Support Fund'', $5,000,000 shall be made available for programs 
        to support private Cuban entrepreneurs, notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, except that no such assistance may be 
        provided for the Government of Cuba:  Provided, That such funds 
        shall be made available following consultation with the 
        appropriate congressional committees.
    (d) Haiti.--
            (1) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not 
        more than $181,413,000 may be made available for assistance for 
        Haiti, as follows--
                    (A) up to $129,213,000 under the heading ``Global 
                Health Programs'';
                    (B) up to $45,000,000 under the heading ``Economic 
                Support Fund'';
                    (C) up to $6,000,000 under the heading 
                ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement''; and
                    (D) up to $1,200,000 under the heading ``Foreign 
                Military Financing Program''.
            (2) Governance certification.--Funds made available in 
        paragraph (1) may not be made available for the central 
        Government of Haiti unless the Secretary of State certifies and 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government 
        of Haiti is--
                    (A) holding free and fair parliamentary elections 
                and taking effective steps to seat a new Haitian 
                Parliament;
                    (B) strengthening the rule of law in Haiti, 
                including by selecting judges in a transparent manner; 
                respecting the independence of the judiciary; and 
                improving governance through implementation of reforms 
                to increase transparency and accountability;
                    (C) combating corruption, including by implementing 
                the anti-corruption law enacted in 2014 and prosecuting 
                corrupt officials; and
                    (D) increasing government revenues, including by 
                implementing tax reforms and through credible tax 
                collection efforts, and increasing expenditures on 
                health care.
            (3) Security certification.--Prior to the initial 
        obligation of funds made available in paragraph (1) under the 
        headings ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
        Enforcement'' and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', the 
        Secretary of State shall certify and report to the Committees 
        on Appropriations that the Haitian National Police and other 
        intended recipients of such funds that are part of the 
        Government of Haiti are not controlled by, or otherwise under 
        the influence of, any private organization or individual.
            (4) Haitian coast guard.--The Government of Haiti shall be 
        eligible to purchase defense articles and services under the 
        Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) for the Coast 
        Guard.
    (e) Aircraft Operations and Maintenance.--To the maximum extent 
practicable, the costs of operations and maintenance, including fuel, 
of aircraft funded by this Act should be borne by the recipient 
country.

           prohibition of payments to united nations members

    Sec. 7046.  None of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act for carrying out the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be used to pay in whole or in part 
any assessments, arrearages, or dues of any member of the United 
Nations or, from funds appropriated by this Act to carry out chapter 1 
of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the costs for 
participation of another country's delegation at international 
conferences held under the auspices of multilateral or international 
organizations.

                          war crimes tribunals

    Sec. 7047. (a) If the President determines that doing so will 
contribute to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other 
violations of international humanitarian law, the President may direct 
a drawdown pursuant to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 of up to $30,000,000 of commodities and services for the United 
Nations War Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the former 
Yugoslavia by the United Nations Security Council or such other 
tribunals or commissions as the Council may establish or authorize to 
deal with such violations, without regard to the ceiling limitation 
contained in paragraph (2) thereof:  Provided, That the determination 
required under this section shall be in lieu of any determinations 
otherwise required under section 552(c):  Provided further, That funds 
made available pursuant to this section shall be made available subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated 
by this Act may be made available for training, technical assistance, 
support for victims, law enforcement activity and cooperation, witness 
protection, and professional services in support of international 
judicial investigations, apprehensions, prosecutions, and adjudications 
of genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes consistent with 
section 2015 of the American Servicemembers' Protection Act, 2002, as 
amended:  Provided, That this subsection shall not apply to nationals 
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and major non-NATO 
allies initially designated pursuant to section 517(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961.

                             united nations

    Sec. 7048. (a) Transparency and Accountability.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated under title I and under the 
        heading ``International Organizations and Programs'' in title V 
        of this Act that are available for contributions to the United 
        Nations (including the Department of Peacekeeping Operations), 
        any United Nations agency, or the Organization of American 
        States, 15 percent may not be obligated for such organization, 
        department, or agency until the Secretary of State reports to 
        the Committees on Appropriations that the organization, 
        department, or agency is--
                    (A) posting on a publicly available Web site, 
                consistent with privacy regulations and due process, 
                regular financial and programmatic audits of such 
                organization, department, or agency, and providing the 
                United States Government with necessary access to such 
                financial and performance audits; and
                    (B) effectively implementing and enforcing policies 
                and procedures which reflect best practices for the 
                protection of whistleblowers from retaliation, 
                including best practices for--
                            (i) protection against retaliation for 
                        internal and lawful public disclosures;
                            (ii) legal burdens of proof;
                            (iii) statutes of limitation for reporting 
                        retaliation;
                            (iv) access to independent adjudicative 
                        bodies, including external arbitration; and
                            (v) results that eliminate the effects of 
                        proven retaliation.
            (2) The restrictions imposed by or pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) may be waived on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary of 
        State determines and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such waiver is necessary to avert or 
        respond to a humanitarian crisis.
    (b) Restrictions on United Nations Delegations and Organizations.--
            (1) None of the funds made available under title I of this 
        Act may be used to pay expenses for any United States 
        delegation to any specialized agency, body, or commission of 
        the United Nations if such agency, body, or commission is 
        chaired or presided over by a country, the government of which 
        the Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of section 
        6(j)(1) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 as continued 
        in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic 
        Powers Act (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(1)), supports international 
        terrorism.
            (2) None of the funds made available under title I of this 
        Act may be used by the Secretary of State as a contribution to 
        any organization, agency, commission, or program within the 
        United Nations system if such organization, agency, commission, 
        or program is chaired or presided over by a country the 
        government of which the Secretary of State has determined, for 
        purposes of section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
        section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act, section 6(j)(1) of 
        the Export Administration Act of 1979, or any other provision 
        of law, is a government that has repeatedly provided support 
        for acts of international terrorism.
            (3) The Secretary of State may waive the restriction in 
        this subsection if the Secretary reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that to do so is in the national interest of the 
        United States.
    (c) United Nations Human Rights Council.--Funds appropriated by 
this Act may be made available to support the United Nations Human 
Rights Council only if the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations that participation in the Council is 
in the national interest of the United States and that the Council is 
taking credible steps to remove Israel as a permanent agenda item:  
Provided, That such report shall include a description of the national 
interest served and a description of steps taken to remove Israel as a 
permanent agenda item:  Provided further, That the Secretary of State 
shall report to the Committees on Appropriations not later than 
September 30, 2016, on the resolutions considered in the United Nations 
Human Rights Council during the previous 12 months, and on steps taken 
to remove Israel as a permanent agenda item.
    (d) United Nations Relief and Works Agency.--The Secretary of State 
shall submit a report in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
not less than 45 days after enactment of this Act on whether the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) is--
            (1) utilizing Operations Support Officers in the West Bank, 
        Gaza, and other fields of operation to inspect UNRWA 
        installations and reporting any inappropriate use;
            (2) acting promptly to address any staff or beneficiary 
        violation of its own policies (including the policies on 
        neutrality and impartiality of employees) and the legal 
        requirements under section 301(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
        of 1961;
            (3) implementing procedures to maintain the neutrality of 
        its facilities, including implementing a no-weapons policy, and 
        conducting regular inspections of its installations, to ensure 
        they are only used for humanitarian or other appropriate 
        purposes;
            (4) taking necessary and appropriate measures to ensure it 
        is operating in compliance with the conditions of section 
        301(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and continuing 
        regular reporting to the Department of State on actions it has 
        taken to ensure conformance with such conditions;
            (5) taking steps to ensure the content of all educational 
        materials currently taught in UNRWA-administered schools and 
        summer camps is consistent with the values of human rights, 
        dignity, and tolerance and does not induce incitement;
            (6) not engaging in operations with financial institutions 
        or related entities in violation of relevant United States law, 
        and is taking steps to improve the financial transparency of 
        the organization; and
            (7) in compliance with the United Nations Board of 
        Auditors' biennial audit requirements and is implementing in a 
        timely fashion the Board's recommendations.
    (e) United Nations Capital Master Plan.--None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used for the design, renovation, or 
construction of the United Nations Headquarters in New York.
    (f) Withholding Report.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations detailing the amount of funds available 
for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2016 for contributions to 
any organization, department, agency, or program within the United 
Nations system or any international program that are withheld from 
obligation or expenditure due to any provision of law:  Provided, That 
the Secretary of State shall update such report each time additional 
funds are withheld by operation of any provision of law:  Provided 
further, That the reprogramming of any withheld funds identified in 
such report, including updates thereof, shall be subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                   community-based police assistance

    Sec. 7049. (a) Authority.--Funds made available by titles III and 
IV of this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 1 of part I and 
chapters 4 and 6 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may 
be used, notwithstanding section 660 of that Act, to enhance the 
effectiveness and accountability of civilian police authority through 
training and technical assistance in human rights, the rule of law, 
anti-corruption, strategic planning, and through assistance to foster 
civilian police roles that support democratic governance, including 
assistance for programs to prevent conflict, respond to disasters, 
address gender-based violence, and foster improved police relations 
with the communities they serve.
    (b) Notification.--Assistance provided under subsection (a) shall 
be subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                  prohibition on promotion of tobacco

    Sec. 7050.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, 
or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign country of 
restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except 
for restrictions which are not applied equally to all tobacco or 
tobacco products of the same type.

                       international conferences

    Sec. 7051.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 
employees of agencies or departments of the United States Government 
who are stationed in the United States, at any single international 
conference occurring outside the United States, unless the Secretary of 
State reports to the Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days in 
advance that such attendance is important to the national interest:  
Provided, That for purposes of this section the term ``international 
conference'' shall mean a conference attended by representatives of the 
United States Government and of foreign governments, international 
organizations, or nongovernmental organizations.

                   aircraft transfer and coordination

    Sec. 7052. (a) Transfer Authority.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law or regulation, aircraft procured with funds 
appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs under the 
headings ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Andean Counterdrug 
Initiative'', and ``Andean Counterdrug Programs'' may be used for any 
other program and in any region, including for the transportation of 
active and standby Civilian Response Corps personnel and equipment 
during a deployment:  Provided, That the responsibility for policy 
decisions and justification for the use of such transfer authority 
shall be the responsibility of the Secretary of State and the Deputy 
Secretary of State and this responsibility shall not be delegated.
    (b) Property Disposal.--The authority provided in subsection (a) 
shall apply only after the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations that the equipment is no longer 
required to meet programmatic purposes in the designated country or 
region:  Provided, That any such transfer shall be subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Aircraft Coordination.--
            (1) The uses of aircraft purchased or leased by the 
        Department of State and the United States Agency for 
        International Development (USAID) with funds made available in 
        this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department 
        of State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be 
        coordinated under the authority of the appropriate Chief of 
        Mission:  Provided, That such aircraft may be used to 
        transport, on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, Federal 
        and non-Federal personnel supporting Department of State and 
        USAID programs and activities:  Provided further, That official 
        travel for other agencies for other purposes may be supported 
        on a reimbursable basis, or without reimbursement when 
        traveling on a space available basis:  Provided further, That 
        funds received by the Department of State for the use of 
        aircraft owned, leased, or chartered by the Department of State 
        may be credited to the Department Working Capital Fund and 
        shall be available for expenses related to the purchase, lease, 
        maintenance, chartering, or operation of such aircraft.
            (2) The requirement and authorities of this subsection 
        shall only apply to aircraft, the primary purpose of which is 
        the transportation of personnel.

   parking fines and real property taxes owed by foreign governments

    Sec. 7053.  The terms and conditions of section 7055 of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2011 (division F of Public Law 111-117) shall apply 
to this Act:  Provided, That the date ``September 30, 2009'' in 
subsection (f)(2)(B) of such section shall be deemed to be ``September 
30, 2015''.

                    landmines and cluster munitions

    Sec. 7054. (a) Landmines.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, demining equipment available to the United States Agency for 
International Development and the Department of State and used in 
support of the clearance of landmines and unexploded ordnance for 
humanitarian purposes may be disposed of on a grant basis in foreign 
countries, subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary of 
State may prescribe.
    (b) Cluster Munitions.--No military assistance shall be furnished 
for cluster munitions, no defense export license for cluster munitions 
may be issued, and no cluster munitions or cluster munitions technology 
shall be sold or transferred, unless--
            (1) the submunitions of the cluster munitions, after 
        arming, do not result in more than 1 percent unexploded 
        ordnance across the range of intended operational environments, 
        and the agreement applicable to the assistance, transfer, or 
        sale of such cluster munitions or cluster munitions technology 
        specifies that the cluster munitions will only be used against 
        clearly defined military targets and will not be used where 
        civilians are known to be present or in areas normally 
        inhabited by civilians; or
            (2) such assistance, license, sale, or transfer is for the 
        purpose of demilitarizing or permanently disposing of such 
        cluster munitions.

                 prohibition on publicity or propaganda

    Sec. 7055.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United 
States not authorized before the date of the enactment of this Act by 
Congress:  Provided, That not to exceed $25,000 may be made available 
to carry out the provisions of section 316 of the International 
Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533).

                           consular immunity

    Sec. 7056.  The Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Attorney General, may, on the basis of reciprocity and under such terms 
and conditions as the Secretary may determine, specify privileges and 
immunities for a consular post, the members of a consular post and 
their families which result in more favorable or less favorable 
treatment than is provided in the Vienna Convention on Consular 
Relations, of April 24, 1963 (T.I.A.S. 6820), entered into force for 
the United States December 24, 1969.

     united states agency for international development management

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 7057. (a) Authority.--Up to $93,000,000 of the funds made 
available in title III of this Act pursuant to or to carry out the 
provisions of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including 
funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
and Central Asia'', may be used by the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) to hire and employ individuals in the 
United States and overseas on a limited appointment basis pursuant to 
the authority of sections 308 and 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 
1980.
    (b) Restrictions.--
            (1) The number of individuals hired in any fiscal year 
        pursuant to the authority contained in subsection (a) may not 
        exceed 175.
            (2) The authority to hire individuals contained in 
        subsection (a) shall expire on September 30, 2017.
    (c) Conditions.--The authority of subsection (a) should only be 
used to the extent that an equivalent number of positions that are 
filled by personal services contractors or other non-direct hire 
employees of USAID, who are compensated with funds appropriated to 
carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'', are eliminated.
    (d) Program Account Charged.--The account charged for the cost of 
an individual hired and employed under the authority of this section 
shall be the account to which the responsibilities of such individual 
primarily relate:  Provided, That funds made available to carry out 
this section may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated 
by this Act in title II under the heading ``Operating Expenses''.
    (e) Foreign Service Limited Extensions.--Individuals hired and 
employed by USAID, with funds made available in this Act or prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs, pursuant to the authority of section 309 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980, may be extended for a period of up to 4 
years notwithstanding the limitation set forth in such section.
    (f) Disaster Surge Capacity.--Funds appropriated under title III of 
this Act to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
including funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, 
Eurasia and Central Asia'', may be used, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes, for the cost (including the support costs) 
of individuals detailed to or employed by USAID whose primary 
responsibility is to carry out programs in response to natural 
disasters, or man-made disasters subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Personal Services Contractors.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
to carry out chapter 1 of part I, chapter 4 of part II, and section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and title II of the Food for 
Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), may be used by USAID to employ up to 40 
personal services contractors in the United States, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, for the purpose of providing direct, interim 
support for new or expanded overseas programs and activities managed by 
the agency until permanent direct hire personnel are hired and trained: 
 Provided, That not more than 15 of such contractors shall be assigned 
to any bureau or office:  Provided further, That such funds 
appropriated to carry out title II of the Food for Peace Act (Public 
Law 83-480), may be made available only for personal services 
contractors assigned to the Office of Food for Peace.
    (h) Small Business.--In entering into multiple award indefinite-
quantity contracts with funds appropriated by this Act, USAID may 
provide an exception to the fair opportunity process for placing task 
orders under such contracts when the order is placed with any category 
of small or small disadvantaged business.
    (i) Senior Foreign Service Limited Appointments.--Individuals hired 
pursuant to the authority provided by section 7059(o) of the Department 
of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2011 (division F of Public Law 111-117) may be assigned to or support 
programs in Afghanistan or Pakistan with funds made available in this 
Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs.

                        global health activities

    Sec. 7058. (a) In General.--Funds appropriated by titles III and IV 
of this Act that are made available for bilateral assistance for child 
survival activities or disease programs including activities relating 
to research on, and the prevention, treatment and control of, HIV/AIDS 
may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of law except 
for provisions under the heading ``Global Health Programs'' and the 
United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria 
Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 711; 22 U.S.C. 7601 et seq.), as amended:  
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under title III of this Act, 
not less than $577,600,000 shall be made available for family planning/
reproductive health, including in areas where population growth 
threatens biodiversity or endangered species.
    (b) Global Fund.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act that are 
available for a contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund), 10 percent should be withheld 
from obligation until the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations that the Global Fund is--
            (1) maintaining and implementing a policy of transparency, 
        including the authority of the Global Fund Office of the 
        Inspector General (OIG) to publish OIG reports on a public Web 
        site;
            (2) providing sufficient resources to maintain an 
        independent OIG that--
                    (A) reports directly to the Board of the Global 
                Fund;
                    (B) maintains a mandate to conduct thorough 
                investigations and programmatic audits, free from undue 
                interference; and
                    (C) compiles regular, publicly published audits and 
                investigations of financial, programmatic, and 
                reporting aspects of the Global Fund, its grantees, 
                recipients, sub-recipients, and Local Fund Agents;
            (3) effectively implementing and enforcing policies and 
        procedures which reflect best practices for the protection of 
        whistleblowers for retaliation, including best practices for--
                    (A) protection against retaliation for internal and 
                lawful public disclosures;
                    (B) legal burdens of proof;
                    (C) statutes of limitation for reporting 
                retaliation;
                    (D) access to independent adjudicative bodies, 
                including external arbitration; and
                    (E) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
                retaliation; and
            (4) implementing the recommendations contained in the 
        Consolidated Transformation Plan approved by the Board of the 
        Global Fund on November 21, 2011:
  Provided, That such withholding shall not be in addition to funds 
that are withheld from the Global Fund in fiscal year 2016 pursuant to 
the application of any other provision contained in this or any other 
Act.
    (c) Contagious Infectious Disease Outbreaks.--If the Secretary of 
State determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
an international infectious disease outbreak is sustained, severe, and 
is spreading internationally, or that it is in the national interest to 
respond to a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, funds 
made available under title III of this Act may be made available to 
combat such infectious disease or public health emergency:  Provided, 
That funds made available pursuant to the authority of this subsection 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

                            gender equality

    Sec. 7059. (a) Gender Equality.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be made available to promote gender equality in United States 
Government diplomatic and development efforts by raising the status, 
increasing the participation, and protecting the rights of women and 
girls worldwide.
    (b) Women's Leadership.--Of the funds appropriated by title III of 
this Act, not less than $50,000,000 shall be made available to increase 
leadership opportunities for women in countries where women and girls 
suffer discrimination due to law, policy, or practice, by strengthening 
protections for women's political status, expanding women's 
participation in political parties and elections, and increasing 
women's opportunities for leadership positions in the public and 
private sectors at the local, provincial, and national levels.
    (c) Gender-Based Violence.--
            (1)(A) Of the funds appropriated by titles III and IV of 
        this Act, not less than $150,000,000 shall be made available to 
        implement a multi-year strategy to prevent and respond to 
        gender-based violence in countries where it is common in 
        conflict and non-conflict settings.
            (B) Funds appropriated by titles III and IV of this Act 
        that are available to train foreign police, judicial, and 
        military personnel, including for international peacekeeping 
        operations, shall address, where appropriate, prevention and 
        response to gender-based violence and trafficking in persons, 
        and shall promote the integration of women into the police and 
        other security forces.
            (2) Department of State and United States Agency for 
        International Development gender programs shall incorporate 
        coordinated efforts to combat a variety of forms of gender-
        based violence, including child marriage, rape, female genital 
        cutting and mutilation, and domestic violence, among other 
        forms of gender-based violence in conflict and non-conflict 
        settings.
    (d) Women, Peace, and Security.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under the headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
Fund'', and ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' 
shall be made available to support a multi-year strategy to expand, and 
improve coordination of, United States Government efforts to empower 
women as equal partners in conflict prevention, peace building, 
transitional processes, and reconstruction efforts in countries 
affected by conflict or in political transition, and to ensure the 
equitable provision of relief and recovery assistance to women and 
girls.

                           sector allocations

    Sec. 7060. (a) Education.--
            (1) Basic education.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act that are made 
                available for assistance for basic education may only 
                be made available for each country at a funding level 
                for basic education that does not exceed that contained 
                in the Congressional Budget Justification, Foreign 
                Operations, Summary Tables, Fiscal Year 2016:  
                Provided, That such funds may only be used to implement 
                the stated objectives of each Country Development 
                Cooperation Strategy or similar strategy:  Provided 
                further, That the Administrator of the United States 
                Agency for International Development (USAID), following 
                consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, may 
                reprogram funds between countries, except that no such 
                reprogramming may result in an overall funding level 
                for basic education exceeding the total amount 
                justified for fiscal year 2016.
                    (B) If the USAID Administrator determines that any 
                unobligated balances of funds specifically designated 
                for basic education in prior Acts making appropriations 
                for foreign operations, export financing, and related 
                programs are in excess of the absorptive capacity of 
                recipient countries, such funds may be made available 
                for other programs authorized under chapter 1 of part I 
                of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding 
                such funding designation:  Provided, That the authority 
                of this paragraph shall be subject to prior 
                consultation with, and the regular notification 
                procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.
            (2) Higher education.--Of the funds appropriated by title 
        III of this Act, not less than $225,000,000 shall be made 
        available for assistance for higher education, of which not 
        less than $35,000,000 should be to support new partnerships 
        between higher education institutions in the United States and 
        developing countries.
            (3) Definition.--For purposes of funds appropriated under 
        title III of this Act, the term ``democracy programs'' in 
        section 7032(c) of this Act shall also include programs to 
        rescue scholars, and fellowships, scholarships, and exchanges 
        in the Middle East and North Africa for academic professionals 
        and university students from countries in such region, subject 
        to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
        Appropriations.
    (b) Development Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Development Assistance'', not less than $26,000,000 
shall be made available for the American Schools and Hospitals Abroad 
program, and not less than $12,000,000 shall be made available for 
cooperative development programs of the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID).
    (c) Environment Programs.--
            (1) Authorities.--
                    (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
                funds appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making 
                appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
                operations, and related programs may be made available 
                for the Green Climate Fund, including as a 
                contribution:  Provided, That any such funds made 
                available for such purpose shall be subject to the 
                regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
                Appropriations.
                    (B) Funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
                available for United States contributions to the Clean 
                Technology Fund and the Strategic Climate Fund.
                    (C) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the 
                provisions of section 103 to 106, and chapter 4 of part 
                II, of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used 
                to support environment programs, notwithstanding any 
                other provision of law except for the provisions of 
                this subsection:  Provided, That such funds are subject 
                to the regular notification procedures of the 
                Committees on Appropriations.
            (2) Conservation programs and limitation.--
                    (A) Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
                this Act, $250,000,000 shall be made available for 
                biodiversity conservation programs.
                    (B) Not less than $55,000,000 of the funds 
                appropriated under title III and IV of this Act shall 
                be made available to combat the transnational threat of 
                wildlife poaching and trafficking:  Provided, That none 
                of the funds appropriated under title IV of this Act 
                may be made available for training or other assistance 
                for any military unit or personnel that the Secretary 
                of State determines has been credibly alleged to have 
                participated in wildlife poaching or trafficking, 
                unless the Secretary reports to the Committees on 
                Appropriations that to do so is in the national 
                security interest of the United States.
                    (C) Limitation.--Funds appropriated by this Act for 
                biodiversity programs shall not be used to support the 
                expansion of industrial scale logging or any other 
                industrial scale extractive activity into areas that 
                were primary/intact tropical forests as of December 30, 
                2013, and the Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct 
                the United States executive directors of each 
                international financial institutions (IFI) to vote 
                against any financing of any such activity.
            (3) Large dams.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        instruct the United States executive director of each IFI that 
        it is the policy of the United States to vote in relation to 
        any loan, grant, strategy, or policy of such institution to 
        support the construction of any large dam consistent with the 
        criteria set forth in the report accompanying this Act, while 
        also considering whether the project involves important foreign 
        policy objectives.
            (4) Sustainable landscapes.--Of the funds appropriated 
        under title III of this Act, $123,500,000 shall be made 
        available for sustainable landscape programs.
    (d) Food Security and Agricultural Development.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by title III of this Act, not 
        less than $1,000,600,000 should be made available for food 
        security and agricultural development programs, of which 
        $32,000,000 shall be made available for the Feed the Future 
        Collaborative Research Innovation Lab:  Provided, That such 
        funds may be made available notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law to prevent or address food shortages, and for a United 
        States contribution to the endowment of the Global Crop 
        Diversity Trust.
            (2) Funds appropriated under title III of this Act may be 
        made available as a contribution to the Global Agriculture and 
        Food Security Program if such contribution will not cause the 
        United States to exceed 33 percent of the total amount of funds 
        contributed to such Program.
    (e) Microenterprise and Microfinance.--Of the funds appropriated by 
this Act, not less than $265,000,000 should be made available for 
microenterprise and microfinance development programs for the poor, 
especially women.
    (f) Power Africa Initiative.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
Act, $76,700,000 shall be made available for the Power Africa 
initiative, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Programs To Combat Trafficking in Persons and End Modern 
Slavery.--
            (1) Trafficking in persons.--Of the funds appropriated by 
        this Act under the headings ``Development Assistance'', 
        ``Economic Support Fund'', and ``International Narcotics 
        Control and Law Enforcement'', not less than $52,500,000 shall 
        be made available for activities to combat trafficking in 
        persons internationally.
            (2) End modern slavery.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the heading ``Development Assistance'', in addition 
        to funds made available pursuant to paragraph (1), $25,000,000, 
        to remain available until expended, shall be made available on 
        a competitive basis for a grant or grants to support innovative 
        strategies, on a cost-matching basis, that reduce the 
        prevalence of modern slavery in targeted populations within 
        partner countries (or jurisdictions thereof) with a high 
        prevalence of modern slavery:  Provided, That for the purposes 
        of this paragraph the terms ``modern slavery'' and ``partner 
        countries'' shall have the same meaning as provided for in 
        section 9 of the End Modern Slavery Initiative Act of 2015 (S. 
        553), as reported by the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations 
        on February 26, 2015:  Provided further, That the requirements 
        of section 7631(d) of title 22, United States Code, shall apply 
        to such funds.
    (h) Reconciliation Programs.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Development 
Assistance'', not less than $26,000,000 shall be made available to 
support people-to-people reconciliation programs which bring together 
individuals of different ethnic, religious, and political backgrounds 
from areas of civil strife and war:  Provided, That the USAID 
Administrator shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations, 
prior to the initial obligation of funds, on the uses of such funds:  
Provided further, That to the maximum extent practicable, such funds 
shall be matched by sources other than the United States Government.
    (i) Water and Sanitation.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act, 
not less than $400,000,000 shall be made available for water supply and 
sanitation projects pursuant to the Senator Paul Simon Water for the 
Poor Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-121), of which not less than 
$145,000,000 should be for programs in sub-Saharan Africa, and of which 
not less than $14,000,000 shall be made available for programs to 
design and build safe, public latrines in Africa and Asia.
    (j) Notification Requirements.--Authorized deviations from funding 
levels contained in this section shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                overseas private investment corporation

    Sec. 7061. (a) Transfer.--Whenever the President determines that it 
is in furtherance of the purposes of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, up to a total of $20,000,000 of the funds appropriated under 
title III of this Act may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
appropriated by this Act for the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation Program Account, to be subject to the terms and conditions 
of that account:  Provided, That such funds shall not be available for 
administrative expenses of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation: 
 Provided further, That designated funding levels in this Act shall not 
be transferred pursuant to this section:  Provided further, That the 
exercise of such authority shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) Authority.--Notwithstanding section 235(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, the authority of subsections (a) through (c) of 
section 234 of such Act shall remain in effect until September 30, 
2016.

                           arms trade treaty

    Sec. 7062.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the 
Senate approves a resolution of ratification for the Treaty.

         international family planning and reproductive health

    Sec. 7063. (a) United Nations Population Fund.--
            (1) Contribution.--Of the amounts made available under the 
        heading ``International Organizations and Programs'' in this 
        Act for fiscal year 2016, $35,000,000 shall be made available 
        for the United Nations Population Fund (referred to in this 
        section as ``UNFPA'').
            (2) Availability of funds.--Amounts appropriated by this 
        Act for UNFPA that are not made available for UNFPA because of 
        the operation of any provision of law shall be transferred to 
        the ``Global Health Programs'' account and shall be made 
        available for family planning, maternal, and reproductive 
        health activities, subject to the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
            (3) Prohibition on use of funds in china.--None of the 
        amounts made available under this Act may be used by UNFPA for 
        a country program in the People's Republic of China.
            (4) Conditions on availability of funds.--Amounts made 
        available by this Act for UNFPA may not be made available 
        unless--
                    (A) UNFPA maintains such amounts in an account that 
                is separate from other UNFPA accounts and does not 
                commingle such funds with other funds; and
                    (B) UNFPA does not fund abortions.
    (b) Assistance for Foreign Nongovernmental Organizations.--The 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by inserting after section 
104C the following:

``SEC. 104D. ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE.

    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, regulation, or 
policy, in determining eligibility for assistance under sections 104, 
104A, 104B, and 104C, a foreign nongovernmental organization--
            ``(1) shall not be ineligible for such assistance solely on 
        the basis of health or medical services, including counseling 
        and referral services, provided by such organization with non-
        United States Government funds if such services--
                    ``(A) are permitted in the country in which they 
                are being provided; and
                    ``(B) would not violate United States law if 
                provided in the United States; and
            ``(2) shall not be subject to requirements relating to the 
        use of non-United States Government funds for advocacy and 
        lobbying activities other than those that apply to United 
        States nongovernmental organizations receiving assistance under 
        this part.''.

    reporting requirements concerning individuals detained at naval 
                     station, guantanamo bay, cuba

    Sec. 7064.  Not later than 5 days after the conclusion of an 
agreement with a country, including a state with a compact of free 
association with the United States, to receive by transfer or release 
individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
Cuba, the Secretary of State shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations in writing of the terms of the agreement, including 
whether funds appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs will be made available for assistance for such country 
pursuant to such agreement.

                 consular and border security programs

    Sec. 7065. (a) There is established in the Treasury a separate fund 
to be known as the ``Consular and Border Security Programs'' account 
into which the following fees shall be deposited for the purposes of 
the consular and border security programs.
    (b) Machine-Readable Visa Fee.--Section 103(d) of Public Law 107-
173 (8 U.S.C. 1713) is amended by striking ``credited as an offsetting 
collection to any appropriation for the Department of State'' and 
inserting ``deposited in the Consular and Border Security Programs 
account''.
    (c) Passport and Immigrant Visa Security Surcharges.--
            (1) The fourth paragraph under the heading ``Diplomatic and 
        Consular Programs'' in title IV of division B of Public Law 
        108-447 (8 U.S.C. 1714) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``and the consular protection of 
                U.S. citizens and their interests overseas'' after ``in 
                support of enhanced border security''; and
                    (B) by striking ``credited to this account'' and 
                inserting ``deposited in the Consular and Border 
                Security Programs account''.
            (2) Section 6 of Public Law 109-472 (8 U.S.C. 1714 note) is 
        amended by inserting ``and the consular protection of U.S. 
        citizens and their interests overseas'' after ``in support of 
        enhanced border security'' each place it appears.
    (d) Diversity Immigrant Lottery Fee.--Section 636 of title VI, 
division C of Public Law 104-208 (8 U.S.C. 1153 note) is amended by 
striking ``as an offsetting collection to any Department of State 
appropriation'' and inserting ``in the Consular and Border Security 
Programs account''.
    (e) Affidavit of Support Fee.--Section 232(c) of title II of 
division A of H.R. 3427 (106th Congress) (incorporated by reference by 
section 1000(a)(7) of division B of Public 106-113, as amended (8 
U.S.C. 1183a note), is further amended by striking ``as an offsetting 
collection to any Department of State appropriation'' and inserting 
``in the Consular and Border Security Programs account''.
    (f) Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative Surcharge.--Subsection 
(b)(1) of section 1 of the Passport Act of June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C. 
214(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``as an offsetting collection to the 
appropriate Department of State appropriation'' and inserting ``in the 
Consular and Border Security Programs account''.
    (g) Expedited Passport Fee.--The first proviso under the heading 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' in title V of Public Law 103-317 
(22 U.S.C. 214 note) is amended by inserting ``or in the Consular and 
Border Security Programs account'' after ``offsetting collection''.
    (h) Transfer of Balances.--The unobligated balances of amounts 
available from fees referenced under this section may be transferred to 
the Consular and Border Security Programs account.
    (i) Funds deposited in or transferred to the Consular and Border 
Security Programs account may be transferred between funds appropriated 
under the heading ``Administration of Foreign Affairs''.
    (j) The transfer authorities in this section shall be in addition 
to any other transfer authority available to the Department of State.
    (k) The amendments made by this section shall take effect not later 
than October 1, 2016, and shall be implemented in a manner that ensures 
the fees collected, transferred, and used in fiscal year 2016 can be 
readily tracked.

                     prohibition on use of torture

    Sec. 7066. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds made available in 
this Act may be used to support or justify the use of torture, cruel, 
or inhumane treatment by any official or contract employee of the 
United States Government.
    (b) Assistance to Eliminate Torture.--Funds appropriated under 
titles III and IV of this Act shall be made available, notwithstanding 
section 660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and following 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, for assistance to 
eliminate torture by foreign police, military or other security forces 
in countries receiving assistance from funds appropriated by this Act.

                              extradition

    Sec. 7067. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated in this 
Act may be used to provide assistance (other than funds provided under 
the headings ``International Disaster Assistance'', ``Complex Crises 
Fund'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', 
``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', ``United States Emergency Refugee 
and Migration Assistance Fund'', and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
terrorism, Demining and Related Assistance'') for the central 
government of a country which has notified the Department of State of 
its refusal to extradite to the United States any individual indicted 
for a criminal offense for which the maximum penalty is life 
imprisonment without the possibility of parole or for killing a law 
enforcement officer, as specified in a United States extradition 
request.
    (b) Clarification.--Subsection (a) shall only apply to the central 
government of a country with which the United States maintains 
diplomatic relations and with which the United States has an 
extradition treaty and the government of that country is in violation 
of the terms and conditions of the treaty.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the restriction in 
subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary certifies to 
the Committees on Appropriations that such waiver is important to the 
national interests of the United States.

                 commercial leasing of defense articles

    Sec. 7068.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms Export 
Control Act may be used to provide financing to Israel, Egypt, and the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and major non-NATO allies 
for the procurement by leasing (including leasing with an option to 
purchase) of defense articles from United States commercial suppliers, 
not including Major Defense Equipment (other than helicopters and other 
types of aircraft having possible civilian application), if the 
President determines that there are compelling foreign policy or 
national security reasons for those defense articles being provided by 
commercial lease rather than by government-to-government sale under 
such Act.

             independent states of the former soviet union

    Sec. 7069. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
Act may be made available for assistance for a government of an 
independent state of the former Soviet Union if that government directs 
any action in violation of the territorial integrity or national 
sovereignty of any other independent state of the former Soviet Union, 
such as those violations included in the Helsinki Final Act:  Provided, 
That except as otherwise provided in section 7070(a) of this Act, funds 
may be made available without regard to the restriction in this 
subsection if the President determines that to do so is in the national 
security interest of the United States:  Provided further, That prior 
to executing the authority contained in this subsection the Department 
of State shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations on how 
such assistance supports the national interest of the United States.
    (b) Section 907 of the Freedom Support Act.--Section 907 of the 
FREEDOM Support Act shall not apply to--
            (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
        title V of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 1424 of the 
        Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 (50 
        U.S.C. 2333) or non-proliferation assistance;
            (2) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
        Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2421);
            (3) any activity carried out by a member of the United 
        States and Foreign Commercial Service while acting within his 
        or her official capacity;
            (4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
        assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
        Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
            (5) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
        of 1945; or
            (6) humanitarian assistance.

                                 russia

    Sec. 7070. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
Act may be made available for assistance for the central Government of 
the Russian Federation.
    (b) Determination and Conditions.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for assistance for the central government of a 
        country that the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
        the Committees on Appropriations has taken affirmative steps 
        intended to support or be supportive of the Russian Federation 
        annexation of Crimea:  Provided, That except as otherwise 
        provided in subsection (a), the Secretary may waive the 
        restriction on assistance required by this paragraph if the 
        Secretary certifies to such Committees that to do so is in the 
        national interest of the United States, and includes a 
        justification for such interest.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for--
                    (A) the implementation of any action or policy that 
                recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation 
                over Crimea;
                    (B) the facilitation, financing, or guarantee of 
                United States Government investments in Crimea, if such 
                activity includes the participation of Russian 
                Government officials, and Russian owned and controlled 
                banks, or other Russian Government owned and controlled 
                financial entities; or
                    (C) assistance for Crimea, if such assistance 
                includes the participation of Russian Government 
                officials, and Russian owned and controlled banks, and 
                other Russian Government owned and controlled financial 
                entities.
            (3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States executive directors of each international financial 
        institution to vote against any assistance by such institution 
        (including but not limited to any loan, credit, or guarantee) 
        for any program that violates the sovereignty or territorial 
        integrity of Ukraine.
            (4) The requirements and limitations of subsection (b) 
        shall cease to be in effect if the Secretary of State certifies 
        and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
        Government of Ukraine has reestablished sovereignty over 
        Crimea.
    (c) Assistance to Reduce Vulnerability and Pressure.--Funds 
appropriated by this Act for assistance for the Eastern Partnership 
countries shall be made available to advance the implementation of 
Association Agreements, trade agreements, and visa liberalization 
agreements with the European Union, and to reduce their vulnerability 
to external economic and political pressure from the Russian 
Federation.
    (d) Democracy Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
made available to support the advancement of democracy and the rule of 
law in the Russian Federation, including to promote Internet freedom, 
and shall also be made available to support the democracy and rule of 
law strategy required by section 7071(d) of the Department of State, 
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 
(division K of Public Law 113-76).
    (e) Reports.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State shall update the reports required by section 
7071(b)(2), (c), and (e) of the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K 
of Public Law 113-76).

                      international monetary fund

    Sec. 7071. (a) Transparency and Accountability.--The terms and 
conditions of sections 7086(b) (1) and (2) and 7090(a) of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117) shall apply 
to this Act.
    (b) Repayment.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF) to seek to ensure that any loan will be repaid to the IMF before 
other private creditors.

                    special defense acquisition fund

    Sec. 7072.  Not to exceed $900,000,000 may be obligated pursuant to 
section 51(c)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act for the purposes of the 
Special Defense Acquisition Fund (Fund), to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That the provision of 
defense articles and defense services to foreign countries or 
international organizations from the Fund shall be subject to the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State.

                      countering violent extremism

    Sec. 7073. (a) Strengthening the State System.--Funds appropriated 
by this Act for counterterrorism programs shall include programs to 
strengthen governance in states whose stability and legitimacy are 
threatened by Islamic or other extremist groups.
    (b) Countering Foreign Terrorist Fighters.--Funds appropriated by 
this Act shall be made available for programs to counter the flow of 
foreign terrorist fighters to countries in which Islamic or other 
extremist groups operate.
    (c) Countering Violent Extremism.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be made available for programs to reduce support for non-state 
entities that engage in terrorist activities through messaging 
campaigns to damage their appeal; programs to engage communities and 
populations at risk of violent extremist radicalization and 
recruitment; counter radicalization, rehabilitation, and reintegration 
programs for potential and former violent extremists, including in 
prisons; law enforcement training programs; and capacity building for 
civil society organizations to combat radicalization in local 
communities.
    (d) Assistance for Fragile States.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be made available for programs that strengthen governance and 
security in fragile states bordering countries whose stability and 
legitimacy are threatened by Islamic or other extremists, as determined 
by the Secretary of State.
    (e) Coordinator and Report.--
            (1) The Secretary of State shall designate, within the 
        Bureau of Counterterrorism, Department of State, a Countering 
        Violent Extremism Assistance Coordinator (the Coordinator) who 
        shall be responsible, consistent with the requirements of this 
        section, for--
                    (A) designing an overall assistance and cooperation 
                strategy for countering violent extremism, including 
                strengthening governance;
                    (B) ensuring program and policy coordination among 
                bureaus of the Department and other agencies of the 
                United States Government in countering extremism, 
                implementing security sector and governance reform 
                programs, and integrating all security sector and 
                civilian assistance authorities and initiatives to 
                counter violent extremism;
                    (C) pursuing coordination with other countries and 
                international organizations with respect to assistance 
                for countering extremism;
                    (D) ensuring United States assistance programs for 
                countering violent extremism funded by this Act and 
                prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
                State, foreign operations, and related programs are 
                consistent with all applicable laws, regulations and 
                policies regarding the use of foreign assistance;
                    (E) ensuring proper management, implementation, and 
                oversight by agencies responsible for assistance 
                programs for countering violent extremism, including 
                consistent policy standards and metrics; and
                    (F) coordinating the uses of funds made available 
                pursuant to subsections (a) through (d) under titles 
                III and IV of this Act and prior Acts making 
                appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
                operations, and related programs:
          Provided, That the Secretary of State, in consultation with 
        the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development (USAID), shall designate a deputy coordinator, from 
        within USAID, to assist such coordinator.
            (2) The Coordinator shall report to the Coordinator for 
        Counterterrorism, Department of State:  Provided, That the 
        Coordinator for Counterterrorism shall be deemed to be the 
        equivalent rank of Assistant Secretary of State.
            (3) Not later than September 30, 2016, the Secretary of 
        State shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
        committees detailing coordination mechanisms for programs to 
        counter terrorism and violent extremism abroad across United 
        States Government agencies, and a list of all such programs 
        conducted by such agencies, which may be submitted in 
        classified form, if necessary.
    (f) Components of the Strategy.--The strategy required by 
subsection (e)(1)(A) shall include the coherent integration of 
counterterrorism, governance and security sector reform programs 
proposed to be implemented from funds appropriated by this Act under 
titles III and IV, including programs to counter violent extremism in 
countries in which state systems are threatened by Islamic and other 
extremists groups, programs to support states bordering such countries, 
programs to strengthen governance in such states, and programs to 
counter the radicalization and flow of foreign terrorist fighters:  
Provided, That such strategy shall include details on funding by 
country, account, and amount for each program:  Provided further, That 
such strategy shall also include a description of counterterrorism 
training and equipment proposed to be provided:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary of State shall submit such strategy, in classified form 
if necessary, to the appropriate congressional committees not later 
than 180 days after enactment of this Act, and shall include 
appropriate funding detail on programs supporting such strategy in the 
report required by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961.
    (g) Monitoring and Oversight.--(1) Prior to the obligation of funds 
appropriated by this Act to implement such strategy, the Secretary of 
State shall take all practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in 
place for monitoring, oversight, and control of such assistance:  
Provided, That the Secretary of State shall inform the appropriate 
congressional committee of each significant instance in which 
assistance provided pursuant to this subsection has been compromised, 
to include the amount and type of assistance affected, a description of 
the incident and parties involved, and an explanation of the response 
of the Department of Department.
            (2) Not later than 90 days after the Secretary of State 
        designates the Coordinator, the Coordinator shall submit a 
        report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing procedures 
        and mechanism for end-use monitoring, vetting procedures, and 
        oversight of security sector and civilian assistance made 
        available to implement the requirements of this section:  
        Provided, That such report shall include a description of the 
        limitations of United States Government personnel to areas in 
        which assistance is provided, and the oversight procedures for 
        such assistance in areas where access by such personnel is 
        limited.

                            enterprise funds

    Sec. 7074. (a) Notification Requirement.--None of the funds made 
available under titles III through VI of this Act may be made available 
for Enterprise Funds unless the appropriate congressional committees 
are notified at least 15 days in advance.
    (b) Distribution of Assets Plan.--Prior to the distribution of any 
assets resulting from any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of an 
Enterprise Fund, in whole or in part, the President shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a plan for the distribution of the 
assets of the Enterprise Fund.
    (c) Transition or Operating Plan.--Prior to a transition to and 
operation of any private equity fund or other parallel investment fund 
under an existing Enterprise Fund, the President shall submit such 
transition or operating plan to the appropriate congressional 
committees.

               use of funds in contravention of this act

    Sec. 7075.  If the President makes a determination not to comply 
with any provision of this Act on constitutional grounds, the head of 
the relevant Federal agency shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations in writing within 5 days of such determination, the 
basis for such determination and any resulting changes to program and 
policy.

                            budget documents

    Sec. 7076. (a) Operating Plans.--Not later than 45 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, each department, agency, or organization 
funded in titles I, II, and VI of this Act, and the Department of the 
Treasury and Independent Agencies funded in title III of this Act, 
including the Inter-American Foundation and the United States African 
Development Foundation, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations an operating plan for funds appropriated to such 
department, agency, or organization in such titles of this Act, or 
funds otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 2016, that 
provides details of the uses of such funds at the program, project, and 
activity level:  Provided, That such plans shall include, as 
applicable, a comparison between the most recent congressional 
directives or approved funding levels and the funding levels proposed 
by the department or agency; and a clear, concise, and informative 
description/justification:  Provided further, That operating plans for 
funds for such department, agency, or organization in titles I, II, or 
III and title VIII, shall simultaneously submit the operating plans 
for, and integrated information on, enduring and Overseas Contingency 
Operations funds:  Provided further, That operating plans that include 
changes in levels of funding specified in this Act or in the report 
accompanying this Act shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) Spend Plans.--
            (1) Prior to the initial obligation of funds, the Secretary 
        of State or Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development (USAID), as appropriate, shall submit 
        to the Committees on Appropriations a detailed spend plan for 
        funds made available by this Act, for--
                    (A) assistance for Afghanistan, Colombia, Egypt, 
                Haiti, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Mexico, Pakistan, the West 
                Bank and Gaza, and Yemen;
                    (B) the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative; the 
                Central America Regional Security Initiative; the 
                Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Partnership; the 
                Partnership for Regional East Africa Counterterrorism; 
                the West Africa Regional Security Initiative; the 
                Global Peace Operations Initiative, including Africa 
                Contingency Operations Training and Assistance; the 
                African Peacekeeping Rapid Response Partnership; the 
                Africa Conflict Stabilization and Border Security 
                program; the African Military Education Program; the 
                Africa Maritime Security Initiative; the Security 
                Governance Initiative; the Africa Regional Counter-
                Terrorism Fund; the Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund; 
                the Regional Security Initiative; the Africa Capacity 
                for Immediate Crisis Response program; and the 
                Southeast Asia Maritime Security Law Enforcement 
                Initiative:  Provided, That the spend plan for such 
                programs shall include the amount of assistance planned 
                for each country by account; and
                    (C) democracy programs and each sector enumerated 
                in section 7060 of this Act.
            (2) Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations a detailed spend plan for funds made available 
        by this Act under the headings ``Department of the Treasury'' 
        in title III and ``International Financial Institutions'' in 
        title V.
    (c) Spending Report.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, the USAID Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a detailed report on spending of funds made available 
during fiscal year 2015 under the heading ``Development Credit 
Authority''.
    (d) Notifications.--The spend plans referenced in subsection (b) 
shall not be considered as meeting the notification requirements in 
this Act or under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (e) Congressional Budget Justification.--The Secretary of State and 
the USAID Administrator shall include in the congressional budget 
justification a detailed justification for multi-year availability for 
any funds requested under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs'' and ``Operating Expenses''.

               records management, requests, and reports

    Sec. 7077. (a)(1) Records Management.--Funds appropriated by this 
Act under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' and 
``Operating Expenses'' shall be made available for purposes of Federal 
records management pursuant to the Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C. 
Chapters 21, 29, 31, and 33) and other applicable Federal records 
management statutes, regulations, or policies for the Department of 
State and the United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID):  Provided, That no such funds may be made available to such 
agencies to support the use or establishment of email accounts or email 
servers created outside the .gov domain or not fitted for automated 
records management as part of a Federal government records management 
program.
    (2)(A) Reports.--Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of State and USAID Administrator shall each submit a 
report to the appropriate congressional committees and to the National 
Archives and Records Administration (NARA) detailing--
                    (i) the policy of each agency regarding the use or 
                establishment of email accounts or email servers 
                created outside the .gov domain or not fitted for 
                automated records management as part of a Federal 
                government records management program;
                    (ii) the extent to which each agency is in 
                compliance with applicable Federal records management 
                statutes, regulations, or policies; and
                    (iii) a description of existing cyber security 
                measures to mitigate vulnerabilities resulting from the 
                use of email accounts or email servers outside the .gov 
                domain.
            (B) Reports assessment.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        submission of the reports required in subparagraph (A), the 
        Comptroller General of the United States, in consultation with 
        NARA, as appropriate, shall conduct an assessment of such 
        reports, and shall consult with the Committees on 
        Appropriations on the scope and requirements of such 
        assessment.
    (b) Requests for Documents.--None of the funds appropriated or made 
available pursuant to title III through VI of this Act shall be 
available to a nongovernmental organization, including any contractor, 
which fails to provide upon timely request any document, file, or 
record necessary to the auditing requirements of the Department of 
State and USAID.
    (c) Public Posting of Reports.--
            (1) Requirement.--Any agency receiving funds made available 
        by this Act shall, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), post on 
        the publicly available Web site of such agency any report 
        required by this Act to be submitted to the Committees on 
        Appropriations, upon a determination by the head of such agency 
        that to do so is in the national interest.
            (2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a report 
        if--
                    (A) the public posting of such report would 
                compromise national security, including the conduct of 
                diplomacy; or
                    (B) the report contains proprietary, privileged, or 
                sensitive information.
            (3) Timing and intention.--The head of the agency posting 
        such report shall, unless otherwise provided for in this Act, 
        do so only after such report has been made available to the 
        Committees on Appropriations for not less than 45 days:  
        Provided, That any report required by this Act to be submitted 
        to the Committees on Appropriations shall include information 
        from the submitting agency on whether such report will be 
        publicly posted.
    (d) Sunset of Reports.--
            (1) Effective September 30, 2017, each report described in 
        paragraph (2) that is still required to be submitted to 
        Congress as of such effective date shall no longer be required 
        to be submitted to Congress upon notification of the Committees 
        on Appropriations, unless otherwise directed by a subsequent 
        Act.
            (2) A report described in this subsection is a report that 
        is required to be submitted at regular periodic intervals to 
        Congress by any prior Act making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        and that is prepared primarily by the Department of State, 
        USAID, or by any officer, official, component, or element of 
        the Department or USAID, by a provision of statute (including 
        title 22, United States Code, and any annual appropriations or 
        authorization Act) as of April 1, 2015.
            (3) This subsection shall not apply to reports required to 
        be submitted by the Department of State or USAID Office of the 
        Inspector General.

                        global internet freedom

    Sec. 7078. (a) Funding.--Of the funds available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2016 under the headings ``International Broadcasting 
Operations'', ``Economic Support Fund'', and ``Democracy Fund'', not 
less than $50,500,000 shall be made available for programs to promote 
Internet freedom globally:  Provided, That such programs shall be 
prioritized for countries whose governments restrict freedom of 
expression on the Internet, and that are important to the national 
interests of the United States:  Provided further, That funds made 
available pursuant to this section shall be matched, to the maximum 
extent practicable, by sources other than the United States Government, 
including from the private sector.
    (b) Requirements.--Funds made available pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall be--
            (1) coordinated with other democracy, governance, and 
        broadcasting programs funded by this Act under the headings 
        ``International Broadcasting Operations'', ``Economic Support 
        Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', ``Complex Crises Fund'', and 
        ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and shall 
        be incorporated into country assistance, democracy promotion, 
        and broadcasting strategies, as appropriate;
            (2) made available to the Bureau of Democracy, Human 
        Rights, and Labor, Department of State for programs to 
        implement the May 2011, International Strategy for Cyberspace 
        and the comprehensive strategy to promote Internet freedom and 
        access to information in Iran, as required by section 414 of 
        the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 
        (22 U.S.C. 8754);
            (3) made available to the Broadcasting Board of Governors 
        (BBG) to provide tools and techniques to access the Web sites 
        of BBG broadcasters that are censored, and to work with such 
        broadcasters to promote and distribute such tools and 
        techniques, including digital security techniques;
            (4) made available for programs that support the efforts of 
        civil society to counter the development of repressive 
        Internet-related laws and regulations, including countering 
        threats to Internet freedom at international organizations; to 
        combat violence against bloggers and other users; and to 
        enhance digital security training and capacity building for 
        democracy activists; and
            (5) made available for research of key threats to Internet 
        freedom; the continued development of technologies that provide 
        or enhance access to the Internet, including circumvention 
        tools that bypass Internet blocking, filtering, and other 
        censorship techniques used by authoritarian governments; and 
        maintenance of the United States Government technological 
        advantage over such censorship techniques:  Provided, That the 
        Secretary of State, in consultation with the BBG, shall 
        coordinate any such research and development programs with 
        other relevant United States Government departments and 
        agencies in order to share information, technologies, and best 
        practices, and to assess the effectiveness of such 
        technologies.
    (c) Coordination and Spend Plans.--After consultation among the 
relevant agency heads to coordinate and de-conflict planned activities, 
but not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of State and the BBG Chairman shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations spend plans for funds made available by this Act for 
programs to promote Internet freedom globally, which shall include a 
description of safeguards established by relevant agencies to ensure 
that such programs are not used for illicit purposes.

                          disability programs

    Sec. 7079. (a) Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act under 
the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be made available for 
programs and activities administered by the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) to address the needs and protect and 
promote the rights of people with disabilities in developing countries, 
including initiatives that focus on independent living, economic self-
sufficiency, advocacy, education, employment, transportation, sports, 
and integration of individuals with disabilities, including for the 
cost of translation.
    (b) Management, Oversight, and Technical Support.--Of the funds 
made available pursuant to this section, 5 percent may be used for 
USAID for management, oversight, and technical support.

                  impact on jobs in the united states

    Sec. 7080.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under titles III through VI of this Act or any other Act 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs may be obligated or expended to provide--
            (1) for fiscal year 2016, any financial incentive to a 
        business enterprise currently located in the United States for 
        the purpose of inducing such an enterprise to relocate outside 
        the United States if such incentive or inducement is likely to 
        reduce the number of employees of such business enterprise in 
        the United States because United States production is being 
        replaced by such enterprise outside the United States;
            (2) for fiscal year 2016, assistance for any program, 
        project, or activity that contributes to the violation of 
        internationally recognized workers rights, as defined in 
        section 507(4) of the Trade Act of 1974, of workers in the 
        recipient country, including any designated zone or area in 
        that country:  Provided, That the application of section 
        507(4)(D) and (E) of such Act should be commensurate with the 
        level of development of the recipient country and sector, and 
        shall not preclude assistance for the informal sector in such 
        country, micro and small-scale enterprise, and smallholder 
        agriculture;
            (3) for fiscal year 2016, any assistance to an entity 
        outside the United States if such assistance is for the purpose 
        of directly relocating or transferring jobs from the United 
        States to other countries and adversely impacts the labor force 
        in the United States; or
            (4) for fiscal year 2016, for the enforcement of any rule, 
        regulation, or policy, or guidelines implemented pursuant to--
                    (A) the third proviso of subsection 7079(b) of the 
                Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
                Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public 
                Law 111-117);
                    (B) the modification proposed by the Overseas 
                Private Investment Corporation in November 2013 to the 
                Corporation's Environmental and Social Policy Statement 
                relating to coal;
                    (C) the Supplemental Guidelines for High Carbon 
                Intensity Projects approved by the Export-Import Bank 
                of the United States on December 12, 2013; or
                    (D) the World Bank Group's Directions for the World 
                Bank Group's Energy Sector released on July 16, 2013,
        when enforcement of such rule, regulation, policy, or 
        guidelines would prohibit, or have the effect of prohibiting, 
        any coal-fired or other power-generation project the purpose of 
        which is to increase exports of goods and services from the 
        United States and provide affordable electricity to people who 
        lack access to electricity, or prevent the loss of jobs in the 
        United States.

  countries impacted by significant refugee populations or internally 
                           displaced persons

    Sec. 7081. (a) Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
headings ``Development Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'' shall 
be made available for programs to assist significant populations of 
internally displaced persons or refugees in countries in conflict:  
Provided, That such funds shall be made available for programs to 
leverage increased assistance from donors other than the United States 
Government for central governments and local communities in such 
countries:  Provided further, That the purposes of such assistance 
shall include activities to--
            (1) expand and improve host government social services and 
        basic infrastructure to accommodate the needs of such 
        populations and persons;
            (2) alleviate the social and economic strains placed on 
        host communities; and
            (3) improve coordination of such assistance in a more 
        effective and sustainable manner.
    (b) Report on Expanding Access to Financing for Certain Middle 
Income Countries.--Not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the 
Treasury, the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development, and the Chief Executive Officer of the 
Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC), shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on the economic and developmental impact 
of significant refugee populations or internally displaced persons on 
host communities and national economies in affected countries:  
Provided, That such report shall include--
            (1) specific recommendations for expanding access for 
        middle income countries to grants and concessional financing on 
        favorable terms from international financial institutions to 
        mitigate such impacts;
            (2) an assessment of hybrid financial models that combine 
        international financial institution lending programs with 
        bilateral grant resources to accelerate development-led 
        solutions to such impacts; and
            (3) an assessment of the implications for the MCC of 
        modifying MCC eligibility requirements for new and ongoing 
        projects that mutually benefit refugee populations and host 
        communities in such countries:
  Provided further, That following the submission of the report, the 
Secretary of State shall regularly update the appropriate congressional 
committees on implementation of the recommendations in paragraph (1).

                    north american development bank

    Sec. 7082.  Part 2 of Subtitle D of title V of Public Law 103-182, 
as amended (22 U.S.C. 290m et seq.), is further amended by adding at 
the end thereof the following new section:

``SEC. 547. FIRST CAPITAL INCREASE.

    ``(a) Subscription Authorized.--
            ``(1) The Secretary of the Treasury may subscribe on behalf 
        of the United States to 150,000 additional shares of the 
        capital stock of the Bank.
            ``(2) Any subscription by the United States to the capital 
        stock of the Bank shall be effective only to such extent and in 
        such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Act.
    ``(b) Limitations on Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In order to pay for the increase in the United States 
        subscription to the Bank under subsection (a), there are 
        authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, 
        $1,500,000,000 for payment by the Secretary of the Treasury.
            ``(2) Of the amount authorized to be appropriated under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) $225,000,000 shall be for paid in shares of 
                the Bank; and
                    ``(B) $1,275,000,000 shall be callable shares of 
                the Bank.''.

                      country focus and selectivity

    Sec. 7083. (a) Transition Plan Requirement.--Any country assistance 
strategy developed after the date of enactment of this Act for the 
provision of assistance for a foreign country shall include a 
transition plan for such assistance to be provided through other 
international donor support and budget support by the respective 
foreign government:  Provided, That such transition plan shall be 
developed by the Department of State and United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID), in consultation with such foreign 
government and local civil society, as appropriate.
    (b) Pilot Program.--Not later than 180 days after enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the USAID 
Administrator and the appropriate congressional committees, shall 
develop and implement a pilot program to gradually decrease assistance 
for at least two countries receiving assistance under this Act and 
prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs that--
            (1) are historical or long-time recipients of such 
        assistance;
            (2) not engaged in regional conflict, or impacted by large 
        numbers of internally displaced persons or significant refugee 
        populations; and
            (3) are not vital to the national security interest of the 
        United States, as determined by the Secretary of State:
  Provided, That such gradual decrease may occur over a period no 
longer than 5 years, and shall exclude democracy programs and disaster 
assistance.

                          rescission of funds

                    (including rescission of funds)

    Sec. 7084. (a) Bilateral Economic Assistance.--Of the funds 
appropriated in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs under the heading 
``Bilateral Economic Assistance, Funds Appropriated to the President, 
Economic Support Fund'', $205,125,000 are rescinded.
    (b) International Security Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated 
in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs under the heading 
``International Security Assistance, Department of State, International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', $159,691,000 are rescinded.
    (c) Limitation.--None of the amounts in this section may be 
rescinded from amounts that were designated by Congress as an emergency 
requirement or for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                               TITLE VIII

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', 
$1,884,569,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, of which 
$1,300,393,000 is for Worldwide Security Protection and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That the Secretary of State may 
transfer up to $10,000,000 of the total funds made available under this 
heading to any other appropriation of any department or agency of the 
United States, upon the concurrence of the head of such department or 
agency, to support operations in and assistance for Afghanistan and to 
carry out the provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961:  
Provided further, That any such transfer shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under subsections (a) and (b) of section 7015 of 
this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                   conflict stabilization operations

    For an additional amount for ``Conflict Stabilization Operations'', 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$66,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, of which 
$56,900,000 shall be for the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
Reconstruction (SIGAR) for reconstruction oversight:  Provided, That 
printing and reproduction costs shall not exceed amounts for such costs 
during fiscal year 2015:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, any employee of SIGAR who completes at least 12 
months of continuous service after the date of enactment of this Act or 
who is employed on the date on which SIGAR terminates, whichever occurs 
first, shall acquire competitive status for appointment to any position 
in the competitive service for which the employee possesses the 
required qualifications:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War 
on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
Maintenance'', $134,800,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $124,000,000 shall be for Worldwide Security Upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      International Organizations

              contributions to international organizations

    For an additional amount for ``Contributions to International 
Organizations'', $52,100,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For an additional amount for ``Contributions for International 
Peacekeeping Activities'', $505,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 international broadcasting operations

    For an additional amount for ``International Broadcasting 
Operations'', $6,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017: 
 Provided, That such amount is designated by Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'', $139,262,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                   international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$1,037,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         transition initiatives

    For an additional amount for ``Transition Initiatives'', 
$20,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         economic support fund

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
$2,019,034,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

            assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia

    For an additional amount for ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'', $410,869,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', 
$1,251,114,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $284,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For an additional amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
Demining and Related Programs'', $262,521,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For an additional amount for ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
$210,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing 
Program'', $1,186,868,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       additional appropriations

    Sec. 8001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated in this title are in addition to amounts appropriated or 
otherwise made available in this Act for fiscal year 2016.

                extension of authorities and conditions

    Sec. 8002.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this title to appropriations 
accounts in this Act shall be available under the authorities and 
conditions applicable to such appropriations accounts.

                   transfer and additional authority

    Sec. 8003. (a) Funds appropriated by this title in this Act under 
the headings ``Transition Initiatives'', ``Economic Support Fund'', 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', ``Peacekeeping 
Operations'', and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' may be 
transferred to, and merged with--
            (1) funds appropriated by this title under such headings; 
        and
            (2) funds appropriated by this title under the headings 
        ``International Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and 
        Refugee Assistance''.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, not to 
exceed $15,000,000 from funds appropriated under the headings 
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Peacekeeping 
Operations'', and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' by this title 
in this Act may be transferred to, and merged with, funds previously 
made available under the heading ``Global Security Contingency Fund'':  
Provided, That not later than 15 days prior to making any such 
transfer, the Secretary of State shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations on a country basis, including the implementation plan 
and timeline for each proposed use of such funds.
    (c) The transfer authority provided in subsections (a) and (b) may 
only be exercised to address contingencies.
    (d) The transfer authority provided in subsections (a) and (b) 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided, That such transfer authority is in addition to any transfer 
authority otherwise available under any other provision of law, 
including section 610 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which may 
be exercised by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this title.

                        designation requirement

    Sec. 8004.  Each amount designated in this title of this Act by 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded, 
if applicable) only if the President subsequently so designates all 
such amounts and transmits such designations to Congress.

                          rescission of funds

    Sec. 8005. (a) Bilateral Economic Assistance.--Of the funds 
appropriated in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs under the heading 
``Bilateral Economic Assistance, Funds Appropriated to the President, 
Economic Support Fund'' and designated by Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, $194,540,000 are rescinded.
    (b) International Security Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated 
in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs under the heading 
``International Security Assistance, Department of State, International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' and designated by Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, $27,497,000 are rescinded.

                                TITLE IX

                    HUMANITARIAN EMERGENCY RESPONSE

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                   international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$298,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary 
expenses to address humanitarian crises globally:  Provided, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading, up to $150,000,000 may be 
made available for assistance for Nepal for earthquake relief, 
recovery, and reconstruction:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', 
$461,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary 
expenses to address humanitarian crises globally:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant 
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                           General Provisions

                       additional appropriations

    Sec. 9001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated in this title are in addition to amount appropriated or 
otherwise made available in this Act for fiscal year 2016.

                 extension of authority and conditions

    Sec. 9002.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this title to appropriations 
accounts in this Act shall be available under the authorities and 
conditions applicable to such appropriations accounts.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 9003.  Funds appropriated by this title in this Act under the 
headings ``International Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and 
Refugee Assistance'' may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
appropriated by this title under such headings, subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                         reporting requirement

    Sec. 9004.  Not later than September 30, 2016, the Secretary of 
State shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations on the 
uses of such funds, including unobligated and unexpended balances, as 
appropriate.

                        designation requirement

    Sec. 9005.  Each amount designated in this title of this Act by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 shall be available only if the President subsequently so 
designates all such amounts and transmits such designations to 
Congress.

                                TITLE X

                             OTHER MATTERS

                        MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE

                    International Monetary Programs

 united states quota, international monetary fund direct loan program 
                                account

    For an increase in the United States quota in the International 
Monetary Fund, the dollar equivalent of 40,871,800,000 Special Drawing 
Rights, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding the provisos under the heading ``International 
Assistance Programs--International Monetary Programs--United States 
Quota, International Monetary Fund'' in the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32), the costs of the amounts provided under 
this heading in this Act and in Public Law 111-32 shall be estimated on 
a present value basis, excluding administrative costs and any 
incidental effects on governmental receipts or outlays:  Provided 
further, That for purposes of the previous proviso, the discount rate 
for purposes of the present value calculation shall be the appropriate 
interest rate on marketable Treasury securities:  Provided further, 
That section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, shall not apply to amounts under this 
heading.

  loans to the international monetary fund direct loan program account

                    (including rescission of funds)

    Of the amounts provided under the heading ``International 
Assistance Programs--International Monetary Programs--Loans to 
International Monetary Fund'' in the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 
2009 (Public Law 111-32), the dollar equivalent of 40,871,800,000 
Special Drawing Rights is hereby permanently cancelled as of the date 
when the rollback of the United States credit arrangement in the New 
Arrangements to Borrow of the International Monetary Fund is effective, 
but no earlier than when the increase of the United States quota 
authorized in section 72 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 
286 et seq.) becomes effective:  Provided, That notwithstanding the 
second through fourth provisos under the heading ``International 
Assistance Programs--International Monetary Programs--Loans to 
International Monetary Fund'' in Public Law 111-32, the costs of the 
amounts under this heading in this Act and in Public Law 111-32 shall 
be estimated on a present value basis, excluding administrative costs 
and any incidental effects on governmental receipts or outlays:  
Provided further, That for purposes of the previous proviso, the 
discount rate for purposes of the present value calculation shall be 
the appropriate interest rate on marketable Treasury securities:  
Provided further, That section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, shall not apply to 
amounts under this heading.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             AMENDMENTS TO THE BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENTS ACT

    Sec. 10001. (a) Section 17 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 
U.S.C. 286e-2) is amended in subsections (b)(1) and (b)(2) by adding at 
the end in both subsections, after ``Fund'', ``only to the extent that 
such amounts are not subject to cancellation''.
    (b) The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 71. ACCEPTANCE OF AMENDMENTS TO THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT OF THE 
              FUND.

    ``The United States Governor of the Fund may accept the amendments 
to the Articles of Agreement of the Fund as proposed in resolution 66-2 
of the Board of Governors of the Fund.

``SEC. 72. QUOTA INCREASE.

    ``(a) In General.--The United States Governor of the Fund may 
consent to an increase in the quota of the United States in the Fund 
equivalent to 40,871,800,000 Special Drawing Rights.
    ``(b) Subject to Appropriations.--The authority provided by 
subsection (a) shall be effective only to such extent or in such 
amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts.''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2016''.
                                                       Calendar No. 144

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1725

                          [Report No. 114-79]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and 
                          for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              July 9, 2015

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
