[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2731 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2731

To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to carry out a land exchange 
 involving land within the boundary of the Cape Cod National Seashore, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 17, 2016

  Mr. Markey introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to carry out a land exchange 
 involving land within the boundary of the Cape Cod National Seashore, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cape Cod National Seashore Land 
Exchange Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 1.09 acres of land depicted as tract 22-4556 on 
        the map entitled ``United States Department of the Interior, 
        National Park Service, Northeast Region, Cape Cod National 
        Seashore'' and dated October 20, 1963, sheet 202-22A.
            (2) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the approximately 1.02 acres of land depicted as tract 26-4653 
        on the map entitled ``United States, Department of the 
        Interior, National Park Service, Northeast Region, Cape Cod 
        National Seashore'' and dated October 27, 1964, Sheet 202-26.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National 
        Park Service.

SEC. 3. LAND EXCHANGE INVOLVING CAPE COD NATIONAL SEASHORE.

    (a) Authorization of Exchange.--If, in accordance with subsection 
(b), acceptable title to the non-Federal land is conveyed to the United 
States, the Secretary shall convey to the owner of the non-Federal 
land, subject to valid existing rights, all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the Federal land.
    (b) Acceptable Title.--Title to the non-Federal land conveyed to 
the United States under subsection (a) shall be title that is 
acceptable to the Secretary, in conformance with title approval 
standards applicable to Federal land acquisitions.
    (c) Applicable Laws; Terms and Conditions.--The exchange under this 
section shall be subject to--
            (1) the laws (including regulations) and policies 
        applicable to exchanges of land administered by the National 
        Park Service, including the laws and policies relating to 
        equalization of values and environmental compliance, other than 
        appraisal requirements; and
            (2) such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines 
        to be appropriate.
    (d) Appraisals.--For the purpose of valuation of the non-Federal 
land and Federal land, the Secretary may use the appraisals conducted 
by Michael Sutton, Certified General Real Estate Appraiser, and dated 
July 14 and July 22, 2009.
    (e) Administration.--The non-Federal land acquired by the Secretary 
under this section shall be administered as part of the Cape Cod 
National Seashore.
    (f) Maps.--The maps described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 
2 shall be on file and available for inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the Department of the Interior.
    (g) Definition of Improved Property.--Section 4(d) of Public Law 
87-126 (16 U.S.C. 459b-3(d)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following: ``The term `improved property' includes any dwelling 
structure (including the land on which the structure is located) that 
is conveyed by the Secretary under this section in exchange for 
conveyance to, or acquisition by, the Secretary of an improved property 
described in this section.''.
                                 <all>
