[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3230 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3230

 To amend the Older Americans Act of 1965 to establish an initiative, 
carried out by the Assistant Secretary for Aging, to coordinate Federal 
efforts and programs for home modifications enabling older individuals 
 to live independently and safely in a home environment, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 14, 2016

 Mr. King (for himself and Ms. Ayotte) introduced the following bill; 
     which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, 
                     Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Older Americans Act of 1965 to establish an initiative, 
carried out by the Assistant Secretary for Aging, to coordinate Federal 
efforts and programs for home modifications enabling older individuals 
 to live independently and safely in a home environment, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Senior Home Modification Assistance 
Initiative Act''.

SEC. 2. SENIOR HOME MODIFICATION ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE.

    The Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

      ``TITLE VIII--SENIOR HOME MODIFICATION ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE

``SEC. 801. SENIOR HOME MODIFICATION ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE.

    ``(a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary shall establish and 
carry out an initiative under this section to coordinate Federal 
resources to provide home modifications for older individuals to 
support enabling such individuals to live independently and safely in a 
home environment.
    ``(b) Coordination of Federal Efforts.--In carrying out the 
initiative under this section, the Assistant Secretary shall, through 
memoranda of understanding, agreements, or other appropriate means of 
coordination, coordinate all Federal efforts and Federal programs 
existing prior to the date of enactment of the Senior Home Modification 
Assistance Initiative Act that support home assessments and home 
modifications for older individuals.
    ``(c) Reports.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of the Senior Home Modification Assistance Initiative Act, and annually 
thereafter, the Assistant Secretary shall publish a report that 
includes--
            ``(1) an inventory of Federal programs that support home 
        assessments and home modifications for older individuals;
            ``(2) for the fiscal year of the report, statistical data 
        on the number of older individuals served by each Federal 
        program described in paragraph (1) and the approximate amount 
        of Federal funding invested in each such program;
            ``(3) a demographic analysis of individuals served by each 
        such program during the fiscal year of the report;
            ``(4) an analysis of duplication and gaps in populations 
        supported by the Federal programs described in paragraph (1); 
        and
            ``(5) an evaluation of the impact of Federal home 
        modification efforts and programs on health status and health 
        outcomes in populations supported by such efforts and programs.
    ``(d) Local Education and Outreach.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary shall, through 
        the National Eldercare Locator Service established under 
        section 202(a)(21), identify and publish an educational 
        brochure on home modifications and repairs for use by older 
        individuals attempting to live independently and safely in 
        their homes and the caregivers of such individuals.
            ``(2) Requirements.--The brochure published under paragraph 
        (1) shall--
                    ``(A) be written in consumer-friendly language;
                    ``(B) include information on the value of home 
                modifications to ensure a safe living environment as 
                individuals age;
                    ``(C) include simple advice on common types of home 
                modification that boost safety and livability; and
                    ``(D) include references to Federal resources 
                available to help offset the cost of home repairs or 
                modifications and where those resources can typically 
                be accessed locally.
            ``(3) Distribution.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The brochure published under 
                paragraph (1) shall be distributed widely throughout 
                the aging network, using the National Eldercare Locator 
                Service, with State agencies, area agencies on aging, 
                and community-based service providers disseminating the 
                brochure to older individuals and caregivers.
                    ``(B) Customization.--The Assistant Secretary shall 
                encourage State agencies, area agencies on aging, and 
                community-based service providers to customize the 
                brochure to include available non-Federal resources.
            ``(4) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for 
        the production and dissemination of the brochure published 
        under paragraph (1).''.
                                 <all>
