[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 758 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 758

 To establish an Interagency Trade Enforcement Center in the Office of 
    the United States Trade Representative, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 17, 2015

  Ms. Stabenow (for herself and Mr. Graham) introduced the following 
  bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To establish an Interagency Trade Enforcement Center in the Office of 
    the United States Trade Representative, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Trade Enforcement Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY TRADE ENFORCEMENT CENTER.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 4 of title I of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 
U.S.C. 2171) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 142. INTERAGENCY TRADE ENFORCEMENT CENTER.

    ``(a) Establishment of Center.--There is established in the Office 
of the United States Trade Representative an Interagency Trade 
Enforcement Center (in this section referred to as the `Center').
    ``(b) Functions of Center.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Center shall--
                    ``(A) serve as the primary forum within the Federal 
                Government for the Office of the United States Trade 
                Representative and other agencies to coordinate the 
                enforcement of United States trade rights under 
                international trade agreements and the enforcement of 
                United States trade remedy laws;
                    ``(B) coordinate among the Office of the United 
                States Trade Representative, other agencies with 
                responsibilities relating to trade, and the 
                intelligence community the exchange of information 
                related to potential violations of international trade 
                agreements by foreign trading partners of the United 
                States; and
                    ``(C) conduct outreach to United States workers, 
                businesses, and other interested persons to foster 
                greater participation in the identification and 
                reduction or elimination of foreign trade barriers and 
                unfair foreign trade practices.
            ``(2) Coordination of trade enforcement.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Center shall coordinate 
                matters relating to the enforcement of United States 
                trade rights under international trade agreements and 
                the enforcement of United States trade remedy laws 
                among the Office of the United States Trade 
                Representative and the following agencies:
                            ``(i) The Department of State.
                            ``(ii) The Department of the Treasury.
                            ``(iii) The Department of Justice.
                            ``(iv) The Department of Agriculture.
                            ``(v) The Department of Commerce.
                            ``(vi) The Department of Homeland Security.
                            ``(vii) The Office of the Director of 
                        National Intelligence.
                            ``(viii) Such other agencies as the 
                        President, or the United States Trade 
                        Representative, may designate.
                    ``(B) Consultations on intellectual property 
                rights.--In matters relating to the enforcement of 
                United States trade rights involving intellectual 
                property rights, the Center shall consult with the 
                Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator appointed 
                pursuant to section 301 of the Prioritizing Resources 
                and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 
                (15 U.S.C. 8111).
    ``(c) Personnel.--
            ``(1) Director.--The head of the Center shall be the 
        Director, who shall be the Deputy United States Trade 
        Representative for Trade Enforcement.
            ``(2) Deputy director.--There shall be in the Center a 
        Deputy Director, who shall--
                    ``(A) be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce 
                from among full-time senior-level officials of the 
                Department of Commerce and detailed to the Center; and
                    ``(B) report directly to the Director.
            ``(3) Intelligence community liaison.--There shall be in 
        the Center an Intelligence Community Liaison, who shall be--
                    ``(A) appointed from among officials of agencies in 
                the intelligence community at the recommendation of the 
                Director of National Intelligence; and
                    ``(B) detailed to the Center by the official's 
                agency.
            ``(4) Additional employees.--The agencies specified in 
        subsection (b)(2)(A) and agencies in the intelligence community 
        recommended by the Director of National Intelligence may, in 
        consultation with the Director, detail or assign their 
        employees to the Center without reimbursement to support the 
        functions of the Center.
    ``(d) Administration.--Funding and administrative support for the 
Center shall be provided by the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative.
    ``(e) Annual Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this section, and not less frequently than annually 
thereafter, the Director shall submit to the Committee on Finance of 
the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives a report on the actions taken by the Center in the 
preceding year with respect to the enforcement of United States trade 
rights under international trade agreements and the enforcement of 
United States trade remedy laws.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Intelligence community.--The term `intelligence 
        community' has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
            ``(2) United states trade remedy laws.--The term `United 
        States trade remedy laws' means the following:
                    ``(A) Chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of 
                1974 (19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.).
                    ``(B) Chapter 1 of title III of that Act (19 U.S.C. 
                2411 et seq.).
                    ``(C) Sections 406 and 421 of that Act (19 U.S.C. 
                2436 and 2451).
                    ``(D) Sections 332 and 337 of the Tariff Act of 
                1930 (19 U.S.C. 1332 and 1337).
                    ``(E) Investigations initiated by the administering 
                authority (as defined in section 771 of that Act (19 
                U.S.C. 1677)) under title VII of that Act (19 U.S.C. 
                1671 et seq.).
                    ``(F) Section 281 of the Uruguay Round Agreements 
                Act (19 U.S.C. 3571).
            ``(3) United states trade rights.--The term `United States 
        trade rights' means any right, benefit, or advantage to which 
        the United States is entitled under an international trade 
        agreement and that could be effectuated through the use of a 
        dispute settlement proceeding.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Trade Act of 
1974 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 141 the 
following:

``Sec. 142. Interagency Trade Enforcement Center.''.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPUTY UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE FOR 
              TRADE ENFORCEMENT AND CHIEF MANUFACTURING NEGOTIATOR.

    (a) Establishment of Positions.--Section 141(b)(2) of the Trade Act 
of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2171(b)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(2) There shall be in the Office 4 Deputy United States Trade 
Representatives, including the Deputy United States Trade 
Representative for Trade Enforcement, one Chief Agricultural 
Negotiator, and one Chief Manufacturing Negotiator who shall all be 
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate. As an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate, any 
nomination of a Deputy United States Trade Representative, the Chief 
Agricultural Negotiator, or the Chief Manufacturing Negotiator 
submitted to the Senate for its advice and consent, and referred to a 
committee, shall be referred to the Committee on Finance. Each Deputy 
United States Trade Representative, the Chief Agricultural Negotiator, 
and the Chief Manufacturing Negotiator shall hold office at the 
pleasure of the President and shall have the rank of Ambassador.''.
    (b) Functions of Positions.--Section 141(c) of the Trade Act of 
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2171(c)) is amended--
            (1) by moving paragraph (5) 2 ems to the left; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(6)(A) The principal function of the Deputy United States Trade 
Representative for Trade Enforcement shall be to ensure that United 
States trading partners comply with trade agreements to which the 
United States is a party.
    ``(B) The Deputy United States Trade Representative for Trade 
Enforcement shall--
            ``(i) serve as the Director of the Interagency Trade 
        Enforcement Center under section 142 and oversee the operations 
        of the Center;
            ``(ii) assist the United States Trade Representative in 
        investigating and prosecuting disputes before the World Trade 
        Organization and pursuant to other bilateral or regional trade 
        agreements to which the United States is a party;
            ``(iii) assist the United States Trade Representative in 
        carrying out the functions of the United States Trade 
        Representative under subsection (d);
            ``(iv) make recommendations with respect to the 
        administration of United States trade remedy laws relating to 
        barriers imposed by foreign governments to the importation of 
        United States goods, services, and intellectual property, and 
        other trade matters; and
            ``(v) perform such other functions as the United States 
        Trade Representative may direct.
    ``(7)(A) The principal function of the Chief Manufacturing 
Negotiator shall be to conduct trade negotiations and to enforce trade 
agreements relating to United States manufacturing products and 
services. The Chief Manufacturing Negotiator shall be a vigorous 
advocate on behalf of United States manufacturing interests and shall 
perform such other functions as the United States Trade Representative 
may direct.
    ``(B) Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
this paragraph, and not less frequently than annually thereafter, the 
Chief Manufacturing Negotiator shall submit to the Committee on Finance 
of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives a report on the actions taken by the Chief 
Manufacturing Negotiator in the preceding year.''.
    (c) Compensation.--Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Deputy United States Trade 
        Representatives (3).'' and inserting ``Deputy United States 
        Trade Representatives (4).''; and
            (2) by inserting ``Chief Manufacturing Negotiator.'' after 
        ``Chief Agricultural Negotiator.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--Section 141(c)(4) of the Trade Act of 
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2171(c)(4)) is amended by inserting ``(other than the 
Deputy United States Trade Representative for Trade Enforcement)'' 
after ``Deputy United States Trade Representative''.
    (e) Technical Amendments.--Section 141(e) of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2171(e)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``5314'' and inserting 
        ``5315''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the maximum rate of pay 
        for grade GS-18, as provided in section 5332'' and inserting 
        ``the maximum rate of pay for level IV of the Executive 
        Schedule in section 5315''.
                                 <all>
