[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 794 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 794

To extend whistleblower protections for defense contractor employees to 
employees of contractors of the elements of the intelligence community.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 18, 2015

Mrs. McCaskill introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
            referred to the Select Committee on Intelligence

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To extend whistleblower protections for defense contractor employees to 
employees of contractors of the elements of the intelligence community.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS FOR DEFENSE 
              CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES TO EMPLOYEES OF CONTRACTORS OF THE 
              ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) Contractors of DoD and Related Agencies.--Subsection (e) of 
section 2409 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(e) Disclosures With Respect to Elements of Intelligence 
Community and Intelligence-Related Activities.--(1) Any disclosure 
under this section by an employee of a contractor, subcontractor, or 
grantee of an element of the intelligence community (as defined in 
section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))) 
with respect to an element of the intelligence community or an activity 
of an element of the intelligence community shall comply with 
applicable provisions of section 17(d)(5) of the Central Intelligence 
Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3517(d)(5)) and section 8H of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    ``(2) Any disclosure described in paragraph (1) of information 
required by Executive order to be kept classified in the interests of 
national defense or the conduct of foreign affairs that is made to a 
court shall be treated by the court in a manner consistent with the 
interests of the national security of the United States, including 
through the use of summaries or ex parte submissions if the element of 
the intelligence community awarding the contract or grant concerned 
advises the court that the national security interests of the United 
States warrant the use of such summaries or submissions.''.
    (b) Pilot Program on Other Contractor Employees.--Subsection (f) of 
section 4712 of title 41, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(f) Disclosures With Respect to Elements of Intelligence 
Community and Intelligence-Related Activities.--
            ``(1) Manner of disclosures.--Any disclosure under this 
        section by an employee of a contractor, subcontractor, or 
        grantee of an element of the intelligence community (as defined 
        in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3003(4))) with respect to an element of the intelligence 
        community or an activity of an element of the intelligence 
        community shall comply with applicable provisions of section 
        17(d)(5) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
        U.S.C. 3517(d)(5)) and section 8H of the Inspector General Act 
        of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
            ``(2) Treatment by courts.--Any disclosure described in 
        paragraph (1) of information required by Executive order to be 
        kept classified in the interests of national defense or the 
        conduct of foreign affairs that is made to a court shall be 
        treated by the court in a manner consistent with the interests 
        of the national security of the United States, including 
        through the use of summaries or ex parte submissions if the 
        element of the intelligence community awarding the contract or 
        grant concerned advises the court that the national security 
        interests of the United States warrant the use of such 
        summaries or submissions.''.
                                 <all>
