[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.J. Res. 37 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 37

   Making continuing appropriations for the Transportation Security 
      Administration for fiscal year 2015, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 26, 2015

    Mr. Ribble introduced the following joint resolution; which was 
              referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
   Making continuing appropriations for the Transportation Security 
      Administration for fiscal year 2015, and for other purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the Transportation Security Administration for 
fiscal year 2015, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided for fiscal year 2014 under the Department of 
Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2014 (division F of Public Law 
113-76) and under the authority and conditions provided in such Act, 
for continuing projects or activities (including the costs of direct 
loans and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided 
for in this joint resolution, that were conducted in fiscal year 2014, 
and for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were made 
available by such Act under the heading ``Transportation Security 
Administration''.
    Sec. 102.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 103.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2015 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
September 30, 2015.
    Sec. 104.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 105.  This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 106.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid 
furloughs within such department or agency, consistent with the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, except that such 
authority provided under this section shall not be used until after the 
department or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer 
non-personnel-related administrative expenses.
     This joint resolution may be cited as the ``Transportation 
Security Administration Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2015''.
                                 <all>
