[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 719 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        H.R.719

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the sixth day of January, two thousand and fifteen


                                 An Act


 
  To require the Transportation Security Administration to conform to 
  existing Federal law and regulations regarding criminal investigator 
                   positions, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``TSA Office of Inspection 
Accountability Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) Consistent with Federal law and regulations, for law 
    enforcement officers to qualify for premium pay as criminal 
    investigators, the officers must, in general, spend on average at 
    least 50 percent of their time investigating, apprehending, or 
    detaining individuals suspected or convicted of offenses against 
    the criminal laws of the United States.
        (2) According to the Inspector General of the Department of 
    Homeland Security (DHS IG), the Transportation Security 
    Administration (TSA) does not ensure that its cadre of criminal 
    investigators in the Office of Inspection are meeting this 
    requirement, even though they are considered law enforcement 
    officers under TSA policy and receive premium pay.
        (3) Instead, TSA criminal investigators in the Office of 
    Inspection primarily monitor the results of criminal investigations 
    conducted by other agencies, investigate administrative cases of 
    TSA employee misconduct, and carry out inspections, covert tests, 
    and internal reviews, which the DHS IG asserts could be performed 
    by employees other than criminal investigators at a lower cost.
        (4) The premium pay and other benefits afforded to TSA criminal 
    investigators in the Office of Inspection who are incorrectly 
    classified as such will cost the taxpayer as much as $17 million 
    over 5 years if TSA fails to make any changes to the number of 
    criminal investigators in the Office of Inspection, according to 
    the DHS IG.
        (5) This may be a conservative estimate, as it accounts for the 
    cost of Law Enforcement Availability Pay, but not the costs of law 
    enforcement training, statutory early retirement benefits, police 
    vehicles, and weapons.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
        (1) Administration.--The term ``Administration'' means the 
    Transportation Security Administration.
        (2) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary'' 
    means the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security (Transportation 
    Security) of the Department of Homeland Security.
        (3) Inspector general.--The term ``Inspector General'' means 
    the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security.

SEC. 4. INSPECTOR GENERAL AUDIT.

    (a) Audit.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Inspector General shall analyze the data and methods 
that the Assistant Secretary uses to identify Office of Inspection 
employees of the Administration who meet the requirements of sections 
8331(20), 8401(17), and 5545a of title 5, United States Code, and 
provide the relevant findings to the Assistant Secretary, including a 
finding on whether the data and methods are adequate and valid.
    (b) Prohibition on Hiring.--If the Inspector General finds that 
such data and methods are inadequate or invalid, the Administration 
shall not hire any new employee to work in the Office of Inspection of 
the Administration until--
        (1) the Assistant Secretary makes a certification described in 
    section 5 to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
    Transportation of the Senate; and
        (2) the Inspector General submits to such Committees a finding, 
    not later than 30 days after the Assistant Secretary makes such 
    certification, that the Assistant Secretary utilized adequate and 
    valid data and methods to make such certification.

SEC. 5. TSA OFFICE OF INSPECTION WORKFORCE CERTIFICATION.

    (a) Certification to Congress.--The Assistant Secretary shall, by 
not later than 90 days after the date the Inspector General provides 
its findings to the Assistant Secretary under section 4(a), document 
and certify in writing to the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate that only those Office of Inspection 
employees of the Administration who meet the requirements of sections 
8331(20), 8401(17), and 5545a of title 5, United States Code, are 
classified as criminal investigators and are receiving premium pay and 
other benefits associated with such classification.
    (b) Employee Reclassification.--The Assistant Secretary shall 
reclassify criminal investigator positions in the Office of Inspection 
as noncriminal investigator positions or non-law enforcement positions 
if the individuals in those positions do not, or are not expected to, 
spend an average of at least 50 percent of their time performing 
criminal investigative duties.
    (c) Projected Cost Savings.--
        (1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary shall estimate the 
    total long-term cost savings to the Federal Government resulting 
    from the implementation of subsection (b), and provide such 
    estimate to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
    Transportation of the Senate by not later than 180 days after the 
    date of enactment of this Act.
        (2) Contents.--Such estimate shall identify savings associated 
    with the positions reclassified under subsection (b) and include, 
    among other factors the Assistant Secretary considers appropriate, 
    savings from--
            (A) law enforcement training;
            (B) early retirement benefits;
            (C) law enforcement availability and other premium pay; and
            (D) weapons, vehicles, and communications devices.

SEC. 6. INVESTIGATION OF FEDERAL AIR MARSHAL SERVICE MISCONDUCT.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
or as soon as practicable, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on 
the Judiciary of the Senate--
        (1) materials in the possession or control of the Department of 
    Homeland Security associated with the Office of Inspection's review 
    of instances in which Federal Air Marshal Service officials 
    obtained discounted or free firearms for personal use;
        (2) information on specific actions that will be taken to 
    prevent Federal Air Marshal Service officials from using their 
    official positions, or exploiting, in any way, the Service's 
    relationships with private vendors to obtain discounted or free 
    firearms for personal use; and
        (3) information on specific actions that will be taken to 
    prevent the Federal Air Marshal Service from misusing Government 
    resources.

SEC. 7. STUDY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date that the Assistant Secretary 
submits the certification to Congress under section 5(a), the Inspector 
General of the Department of Homeland Security shall submit to the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a study--
        (1) reviewing the employee requirements, responsibilities, and 
    benefits of criminal investigators in the TSA Office of Inspection 
    with criminal investigators employed at agencies adhering to the 
    Office of Personnel Management employee classification system; and
        (2) identifying any inconsistencies and costs implications for 
    differences between the varying employee requirements, 
    responsibilities, and benefits.

SEC. 8. INDEPENDENT AUDIT OF FEDERAL AIR MARSHAL SERVICE PERSONNEL 
              ISSUES.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Inspector General shall submit to the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate a study that--
        (1) reviews the Federal Air Marshal Service's existing 
    personnel policies and procedures for identifying misuse of 
    Government resources; and
        (2) reviews the administration of the Federal Air Marshal 
    Service's existing code of conduct or integrity policies with 
    respect to instances of misconduct.
The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or 
other revenues, receipts, and funds, for the several departments, 
agencies, corporations, and other organizational units of Government 
for fiscal year 2016, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided in the applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal 
year 2015 and under the authority and conditions provided in such Acts, 
for continuing projects or activities (including the costs of direct 
loans and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided 
for in this Act, that were conducted in fiscal year 2015, and for which 
appropriations, funds, or other authority were made available in the 
following appropriations Acts:
        (1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
    Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015 
    (division A of Public Law 113-235), except section 743 and title 
    VIII.
        (2) The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
    Appropriations Act, 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-235).
        (3) The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2015 
    (division C of Public Law 113-235), except title X.
        (4) The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies 
    Appropriations Act, 2015 (division D of Public Law 113-235).
        (5) The Financial Services and General Government 
    Appropriations Act, 2015 (division E of Public Law 113-235).
        (6) The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
    2015 (Public Law 114-4).
        (7) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related 
    Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015 (division F of Public Law 113-
    235).
        (8) The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
    Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015 (division 
    G of Public Law 113-235), except title VI.
        (9) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2015 (division H 
    of Public Law 113-235).
        (10) The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and 
    Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015 (division I of Public Law 
    113-235).
        (11) The Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
    Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-
    235), except title IX.
        (12) The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and 
    Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015 (division K of Public Law 
    113-235).
        (13) Section 11 of the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
    Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235).
    (b) The rate for operations provided by subsection (a) is hereby 
reduced by 0.2108 percent.
    Sec. 102. (a) No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for: (1) the new production of items not funded for production in 
fiscal year 2015 or prior years; (2) the increase in production rates 
above those sustained with fiscal year 2015 funds; or (3) the 
initiation, resumption, or continuation of any project, activity, 
operation, or organization (defined as any project, subproject, 
activity, budget activity, program element, and subprogram within a 
program element, and for any investment items defined as a P-1 line 
item in a budget activity within an appropriation account and an R-1 
line item that includes a program element and subprogram element within 
an appropriation account) for which appropriations, funds, or other 
authority were not available during fiscal year 2015.
    (b) No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted 
pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be used to 
initiate multi-year procurements utilizing advance procurement funding 
for economic order quantity procurement unless specifically 
appropriated later.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104. Except as otherwise provided in section 102, no 
appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to 
section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any project or activity 
for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available 
during fiscal year 2015.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to 
this Act shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred for any 
project or activity during the period for which funds or authority for 
such project or activity are available under this Act.
    Sec. 106. Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016, appropriations and 
funds made available and authority granted pursuant to this Act shall 
be available until whichever of the following first occurs: (1) the 
enactment into law of an appropriation for any project or activity 
provided for in this Act; (2) the enactment into law of the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016 without any provision for such 
project or activity; or (3) December 11, 2015.
    Sec. 107. Expenditures made pursuant to this Act shall be charged 
to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever a bill 
in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is 
contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108. Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this Act may be used without regard to 
the time limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set 
forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing in 
this Act may be construed to waive any other provision of law governing 
the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, except 
section 106, for those programs that would otherwise have high initial 
rates of operation or complete distribution of appropriations at the 
beginning of fiscal year 2016 because of distributions of funding to 
States, foreign countries, grantees, or others, such high initial rates 
of operation or complete distribution shall not be made, and no grants 
shall be awarded for such programs funded by this Act that would 
impinge on final funding prerogatives.
    Sec. 110. This Act shall be implemented so that only the most 
limited funding action of that permitted in the Act shall be taken in 
order to provide for continuation of projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2015, and for activities under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, 
activities shall be continued at the rate to maintain program levels 
under current law, under the authority and conditions provided in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015, to be continued 
through the date specified in section 106(3).
    (b) Notwithstanding section 106, obligations for mandatory payments 
due on or about the first day of any month that begins after October 
2015 but not later than 30 days after the date specified in section 
106(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be available for such 
payments.
    Sec. 112. Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid 
furloughs within such department or agency, consistent with the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015, except that such 
authority provided under this section shall not be used until after the 
department or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer 
non-personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 113. Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 
2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114. (a) Each amount incorporated by reference in this Act 
that was previously designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or as 
being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of such Act 
is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act or 
as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of such 
Act, respectively.
    (b) The reduction in section 101(b) of this Act shall not apply 
to--
        (1) amounts designated under subsection (a) of this section; or
        (2) amounts made available by section 101(a) by reference to 
    the second paragraph under the heading ``Social Security 
    Administration--Limitation on Administrative Expenses'' in division 
    G of Public Law 113-235; or
        (3) amounts made available by section 101(a) by reference to 
    the paragraph under the heading ``Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
    Services--Health Care Fraud and Abuse Control Account'' in division 
    G of Public Law 113-235.
    (c) Section 6 of Public Law 113-235 shall apply to amounts 
designated in subsection (a) for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism.
    Sec. 115. During the period covered by this Act, discretionary 
amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2016 that were provided in advance 
by appropriations Acts shall be available in the amounts provided in 
such Acts, reduced by the percentage in section 101(b).
    Sec. 116. Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Agriculture--Domestic Food Programs--Food and Nutrition 
Service--Commodity Assistance Program'' at a rate for operations of 
$288,317,000, of which $221,298,000 shall be for the Commodity 
Supplemental Food Program.
    Sec. 117. Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Department of 
Agriculture--Rural Housing Service--Rental Assistance Program'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to pay ongoing debt 
service for the multi-family direct loan programs under sections 514 
and 515 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1484 and 1485):  
Provided, That the Secretary may waive the prohibition in the second 
proviso under such heading in division A of Public Law 113-235 with 
respect to rental assistance contracts entered into or renewed during 
fiscal year 2015.
    Sec. 118. Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Department of 
Commerce--National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration--Procurement, 
Acquisition and Construction'' may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to maintain the planned launch schedules for the 
Joint Polar Satellite System.
    Sec. 119. (a) The first proviso under the heading ``United States 
Marshals Service--Federal Prisoner Detention'' in title II of division 
B of Public Law 113-235 shall not apply during the period covered by 
this Act.
    (b) The limitation in section 217(c) of division B of Public Law 
113-235 on the amount of excess unobligated balances available under 
section 524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, United States Code, shall not apply 
under this Act to the use of such funds for ``United States Marshals 
Service--Federal Prisoner Detention''.
    Sec. 120. (a) The authority regarding closeout of Space Shuttle 
contracts and associated programs provided by language under the 
heading ``National Aeronautics and Space Administration--Administrative 
Provisions'' in the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8) 
shall continue in effect through fiscal year 2021.
    (b) This section shall be applied as if it were in effect on 
September 30, 2015.
    Sec. 121. (a) Notwithstanding section 1552 of title 31, United 
States Code, funds made available, including funds that have expired 
but have not been cancelled, and identified by Treasury Appropriation 
Fund Symbol 13-09/10-0554 shall remain available for expenditure 
through fiscal year 2020 for the purpose of liquidating valid 
obligations of active grants.
    (b) For the purpose of subsection (a), grants for which the period 
of performance has expired but are not finally closed out shall be 
considered active grants.
    (c) This section shall be applied as if it were in effect on 
September 30, 2015.
    Sec. 122. The following provisions shall be applied by substituting 
``2016'' for ``2015'' through the earlier of the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this Act or the date of the enactment of an Act 
authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2016 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense:
        (1) Section 1215(f)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 113 note), 
    as most recently amended by section 1237 of the Carl Levin and 
    Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291).
        (2) Section 127b(c)(3)(C) of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 123. (a) Funds made available by section 101 for ``Department 
of Energy--Energy Programs--Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and 
Decommissioning Fund'' may be apportioned up to the rate for operations 
necessary to avoid disruption of continuing projects or activities 
funded in this appropriation.
    (b) The Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate not later 
than 3 days after each use of the authority provided in subsection (a).
    Sec. 124. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, except 
section 106, the District of Columbia may expend local funds under the 
heading ``District of Columbia Funds'' for such programs and activities 
under the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2015 (title IV of 
division E of Public Law 113-235) at the rate set forth under 
``District of Columbia Funds--Summary of Expenses'' as included in the 
Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Request Act of 2015 (D.C. Act 21-99), as 
modified as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 125. Notwithstanding section 101, no funds are provided by 
this Act for ``Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board--Salaries 
and Expenses''.
    Sec. 126. Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Small 
Business Administration--Business Loans Program Account'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to accommodate 
increased demand for commitments for general business loans authorized 
under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)).
    Sec. 127. Sections 1101(a) and 1104(a)(2)(A) of the Internet Tax 
Freedom Act (title XI of division C of Public Law 105-277; 47 U.S.C. 
151 note) shall be applied by substituting the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this Act for ``October 1, 2015''.
    Sec. 128. Section 101 shall be applied by assuming that section 7 
of Public Law 113-235 was enacted as part of title VII of division E of 
Public Law 113-235.
    Sec. 129. The authority provided by section 831 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act.
    Sec. 130. Section 401(b) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and 
Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1324a note) shall be 
applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
Act for ``September 30, 2015''.
    Sec. 131. Section 610(b) of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, 
and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 
(8 U.S.C. 1153 note) shall be applied by substituting the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this Act for ``September 30, 2015''.
    Sec. 132. Subclauses 101(a)(27)(C)(ii)(II) and (III) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)(C)(ii)(II) and 
(III)) shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 
106(3) of this Act for ``September 30, 2015''.
    Sec. 133. Section 220(c) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Technical Corrections Act of 1994 (8 U.S.C. 1182 note) shall be applied 
by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act for 
``September 30, 2015''.
    Sec. 134. Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement 
Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) is amended by striking all that follows after 
``shall terminate'' and inserting ``September 30, 2017.''.
    Sec. 135. In addition to the amount otherwise provided by section 
101 for ``Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Wildland Fire 
Management'', there is appropriated $700,000,000 for an additional 
amount for fiscal year 2016, to remain available until expended, for 
urgent wildland fire suppression activities:  Provided, That such funds 
shall only become available if funds previously provided for wildland 
fire suppression will be exhausted imminently and the Secretary of 
Agriculture notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in writing of the need for these 
additional funds:  Provided further, That such funds are also available 
for transfer to other appropriations accounts to repay amounts 
previously transferred for wildfire suppression:  Provided further, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, except that such amount 
shall be available only if the President subsequently so designates 
such amount and transmits such designation to the Congress.
    Sec. 136. The authorities provided by sections 117 and 123 of 
division G of Public Law 113-76 shall continue in effect through the 
date specified in section 106(3) of this Act.
    Sec. 137. (a) The authority provided by subsection (m)(3) of 
section 8162 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (40 
U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 106-79) shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act.
    (b) For the period covered by this Act, the authority provided by 
the provisos under the heading ``Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial 
Commission--Capital Construction'' in division E of Public Law 112-74 
shall not be in effect.
    Sec. 138. Section 3096(2) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 is 
amended by inserting ``for fiscal year 2015'' after ``$37,000,000''.
    Sec. 139. Funds made available in prior appropriations Acts for 
construction and renovation of facilities for the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention may also be used for construction on leased 
land.
    Sec. 140. Subsection (b) of section 163 of Public Law 111-242, as 
amended, is further amended by striking ``2015-2016'' and inserting 
``2016-2017''.
    Sec. 141. Section 101 shall be applied by assuming that section 139 
of Public Law 113-164 was enacted as part of division G of Public Law 
113-235, and section 139 of Public Law 113-164 shall be applied by 
adding at the end the following: ``and of the unobligated balance of 
amounts deposited or available in the Child Enrollment Contingency Fund 
from appropriations to the Fund under section 2104(n)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Social Security Act and the income derived from investment of those 
funds pursuant to 2104(n)(2)(C) of that Act, $1,664,000,000 is 
rescinded''.
    Sec. 142. Section 114(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 1011c(f)) shall be applied by substituting the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this Act for ``September 30, 2015''.
    Sec. 143. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, there is 
appropriated for payment to Tori B. Nunnelee, widow of Alan Nunnelee, 
late a Representative from the State of Mississippi, $174,000.
    Sec. 144. Of the discretionary unobligated balances of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs from fiscal year 2015 or prior fiscal 
years, or discretionary amounts appropriated in advance for fiscal year 
2016, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may transfer up to $625,000,000 
to ``Department of Veterans Affairs--Departmental Administration--
Construction, Major Projects'', to be merged with the amounts available 
in such account:  Provided, That no amounts may be transferred from 
amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget, the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, or the 
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010:  Provided further, That no amounts 
may be transferred until the Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a request 
for, and receives from the Committees written approval of, such 
transfers:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall specify in such 
request the donor account and amount of each proposed transfer, the 
fiscal year of each appropriation to be transferred, the amount of 
unobligated balances remaining in the account after the transfer, and 
the project or program impact of the transfer.
    Sec. 145. Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Veterans Affairs--Departmental Administration--General 
Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' at a rate for 
operations of $2,697,734,000.
    Sec. 146. Notwithstanding section 101, section 226(a) of division I 
of Public Law 113-235 shall be applied to amounts made available by 
this Act by substituting ``division I of Public Law 113-235'' for 
``division J of Public Law 113-76'' and by substituting ``2015'' for 
``2014''.
    Sec. 147. Section 209 of the International Religious Freedom Act of 
1998 (22 U.S.C. 6436) shall be applied by substituting the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this Act for ``September 30, 2015''.
    Sec. 148. Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Broadcasting 
Board of Governors--International Broadcasting Operations'', 
``Bilateral Economic Assistance--Funds Appropriated to the President--
Economic Support Fund'', ``International Security Assistance--
Department of State--International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', ``International Security Assistance--Department of 
State--Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'', and ``International Security Assistance--Funds Appropriated 
to the President--Foreign Military Financing Program'' shall be 
obligated at a rate for operations as necessary to sustain assistance 
for Ukraine to counter external, regional aggression and influence, 
including for the costs of authorized loan guarantees.
    Sec. 149. Section 1334 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
Restructuring Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6553) shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act for 
``October 1, 2015''.
    Sec. 150. (a) Funds made available by section 101 for ``Department 
of Housing and Urban Development--Management and Administration--
Administrative Support Offices'' may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to maintain the planned schedule for the New Core 
Shared Services Project.
    (b) Not later than 3 days before the first use of the apportionment 
authority in subsection (a), each 30 days thereafter, and 3 days after 
the authority expires under this Act, the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate a report specifying each 
use of the authority through the date of the report.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2016''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
