[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 725 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 725

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 13, 2016.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (S. 524) to authorize the Attorney General to 
award grants to address the national epidemics of prescription opioid abuse and 
heroin use. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. An 
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the respective texts of 
the bills specified in section 2(a) of this resolution shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided among and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce and the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Judiciary; and (2) one motion to commit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2. (a) The bills referred to in the first section of this resolution 
are as follows: H.R. 4641, H.R. 5046, H.R. 4063, H.R. 4985, H.R. 5048, H.R. 
5052, H.R. 4843, H.R. 4978, H.R. 3680, H.R. 3691, H.R. 1818, H.R. 4969, H.R. 
4586, H.R. 4599, H.R. 4976, H.R. 4982, H.R. 4981, and H.R. 1725, in each case as 
passed by the House.
    (b) In forming the amendment in the nature of a substitute referred to in 
the first section of this resolution, the Clerk--
            (1) shall assign appropriate designations to provisions within the 
        amendment in the nature of a substitute;
            (2) shall conform cross-references and provisions for short titles 
        within the amendment in the nature of a substitute; and
            (3) is authorized to make technical corrections within the amendment 
        in the nature of a substitute, to include corrections in spelling, 
        punctuation, page and line numbering, section numbering, and insertion 
        of appropriate headings.
    Sec. 3.  Upon passage of S. 524 the title of such bill is amended to read as 
follows: ``To authorize the Attorney General and Secretary of Health and Human 
Services to award grants to address the national epidemics of prescription 
opioid abuse and heroin use, and to provide for the establishment of an inter-
agency task force to review, modify, and update best practices for pain 
management and prescribing pain medication, and for other purposes.''.
    Sec. 4.  If S. 524, as amended, is passed, then it shall be in order for the 
chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or his designee to move that the 
House insist on its amendments to S. 524 and request a conference with the 
Senate thereon.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
