[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1032 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1032

 To withhold the pay of Members of Congress in the event of a shutdown 
                of the Department of Homeland Security.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 24, 2015

    Mr. Ashford (for himself, Mr. Peters, Ms. Graham, and Mr. Bera) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                          House Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To withhold the pay of Members of Congress in the event of a shutdown 
                of the Department of Homeland Security.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``No Homeland Security, No Pay Act''.

SEC. 2. WITHHOLDING MEMBER PAY IN EVENT OF SHUTDOWN OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              HOMELAND SECURITY.

    (a) Holding Salaries in Escrow.--If on any day during the One 
Hundred Fourteenth Congress a shutdown of the Department of Homeland 
Security is in effect, the payroll administrator of that House of 
Congress shall--
            (1) withhold from the payments otherwise required to be 
        made with respect to a pay period for the compensation of each 
        Member of Congress who serves in that House of Congress an 
        amount equal to the product of--
                    (A) an amount equal to one day's worth of pay under 
                the annual rate of pay applicable to the Member under 
                section 601(a) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
                1946 (2 U.S.C. 4501), and
                    (B) the number of 24-hour periods during which the 
                shutdown is in effect which occur during the pay 
                period; and
            (2) deposit in an escrow account all amounts withheld under 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) Release of Amounts at End of the Congress.--In order to ensure 
that this section is carried out in a manner that shall not vary the 
compensation of Senators or Representatives in violation of the twenty-
seventh article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States, 
the payroll administrator of a House of Congress shall release for 
payments to Members of that House of Congress any amounts remaining in 
any escrow account under this section on the last day of the One 
Hundred Fourteenth Congress.
    (c) Role of Secretary of the Treasury.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall provide the payroll administrators of the Houses of 
Congress with such assistance as may be necessary to enable the payroll 
administrators to carry out this section.
    (d) Payroll Administrator Defined.--In this section, the ``payroll 
administrator'' of a House of Congress means--
            (1) in the case of the House of Representatives, the Chief 
        Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, or an 
        employee of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer who 
        is designated by the Chief Administrative Officer to carry out 
        this section; and
            (2) in the case of the Senate, the Secretary of the Senate, 
        or an employee of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate who 
        is designated by the Secretary to carry out this section.

SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF SHUTDOWN.

    For purposes of this Act, a shutdown of the Department of Homeland 
Security shall be considered to be in effect if there is a lapse in 
appropriations for the Department as a result of a failure to enact a 
regular appropriations bill or continuing resolution.

SEC. 4. MEMBER OF CONGRESS DEFINED.

    In this Act, the term ``Member of Congress'' means an individual 
serving in a position under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 
601(a) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4501).
                                 <all>
