[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 469 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 469

 To improve the reproductive assistance provided by the Department of 
  Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to severely wounded, 
   ill, or injured members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their 
              spouses or partners, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 11, 2015

Mrs. Murray (for herself, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Tester, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. 
Sanders, and Mr. Bennet) introduced the following bill; which was read 
        twice and referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To improve the reproductive assistance provided by the Department of 
  Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to severely wounded, 
   ill, or injured members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and their 
              spouses or partners, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Women Veterans and 
Families Health Services Act of 2015''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--REPRODUCTIVE AND FERTILITY PRESERVATION ASSISTANCE FOR MEMBERS 
                          OF THE ARMED FORCES

Sec. 101. Provision of fertility treatment and counseling to spouses, 
                            partners, and gestational surrogates of 
                            certain members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 102. Establishment of fertility preservation procedures after an 
                            injury or illness.
Sec. 103. Cryopreservation and storage of gametes of members of the 
                            Armed Forces on active duty.
Sec. 104. Coordination between Department of Defense and Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs on furnishing of fertility 
                            treatment and counseling.
    TITLE II--REPRODUCTIVE, ADOPTION, AND CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE FOR 
                                VETERANS

Sec. 201. Inclusion of fertility treatment and counseling under the 
                            definition of medical services in title 38.
Sec. 202. Fertility treatment and counseling for spouses, partners, and 
                            gestational surrogates of veterans.
Sec. 203. Adoption assistance for severely wounded veterans.
Sec. 204. Annual report on fertility treatment and counseling furnished 
                            by Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 205. Regulations on furnishing of fertility treatment and 
                            counseling and adoption assistance by 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 206. Facilitation of reproduction and infertility research.
Sec. 207. Requirement to improve Department of Veterans Affairs women 
                            veterans contact center.
Sec. 208. Modification of pilot program on counseling in retreat 
                            settings for women veterans newly separated 
                            from service in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 209. Program on assistance for child care for certain veterans.

TITLE I--REPRODUCTIVE AND FERTILITY PRESERVATION ASSISTANCE FOR MEMBERS 
                          OF THE ARMED FORCES

SEC. 101. PROVISION OF FERTILITY TREATMENT AND COUNSELING TO SPOUSES, 
              PARTNERS, AND GESTATIONAL SURROGATES OF CERTAIN MEMBERS 
              OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Fertility Treatment and Counseling.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall furnish 
        fertility treatment and counseling, including through the use 
        of assisted reproductive technology, to a spouse, partner, or 
        gestational surrogate of a severely wounded, ill, or injured 
        member of the Armed Forces who has an infertility condition 
        incurred or aggravated while serving on active duty in the 
        Armed Forces.
            (2) Eligibility for treatment and counseling.--Fertility 
        treatment and counseling shall be furnished under paragraph (1) 
        to a spouse, partner, or gestational surrogate of a member of 
        the Armed Forces described in such paragraph without regard to 
        the sex or marital status of such member.
            (3) In vitro fertilization.--In the case of in vitro 
        fertilization treatment furnished under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary may furnish not more than three completed cycles or 
        six attempted cycles of in vitro fertilization, whichever 
        occurs first, to a spouse, partner, or gestational surrogate 
        described in such paragraph.
    (b) Procurement of Gametes.--If a member of the Armed Forces 
described in subsection (a) is unable to provide their gametes for 
purposes of fertility treatment under subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall, at the election of such member, allow such member to receive 
such treatment with donated gametes and pay or reimburse such member 
the reasonable costs of procuring gametes from a donor.
    (c) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
require the Secretary--
            (1) to find or certify a gestational surrogate for a member 
        of the Armed Forces or to connect a gestational surrogate with 
        a member of the Armed Forces; or
            (2) to find or certify gametes from a donor for a member of 
        the Armed Forces or to connect a member of the Armed Forces 
        with gametes from a donor.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Fertility treatment.--The term ``fertility treatment'' 
        includes the following:
                    (A) Procedures that use assisted reproductive 
                technology.
                    (B) Sperm retrieval.
                    (C) Egg retrieval.
                    (D) Artificial insemination.
                    (E) Embryo transfer.
                    (F) Such other treatments as the Secretary of 
                Defense considers appropriate.
            (2) Assisted reproductive technology.--The term ``assisted 
        reproductive technology'' includes in vitro fertilization and 
        other fertility treatments in which both eggs and sperm are 
        handled when clinically appropriate.
            (3) Partner.--The term ``partner'', with respect to a 
        member of the Armed Forces, means an individual selected by the 
        member who agrees to share with the member the parental 
        responsibilities with respect to any child born as a result of 
        the use of any fertility treatment under this section.

SEC. 102. ESTABLISHMENT OF FERTILITY PRESERVATION PROCEDURES AFTER AN 
              INJURY OR ILLNESS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, shall establish 
procedures for the retrieval of gametes, as soon as medically 
appropriate, from a member of the Armed Forces in cases in which the 
fertility of such member is potentially jeopardized as a result of an 
injury or illness incurred or aggravated while serving on active duty 
in the Armed Forces in order to preserve the medical options of such 
member.
    (b) Consent for Retrieval of Gametes.--Gametes may be retrieved 
from a member of the Armed Forces under subsection (a) only--
            (1) with the specific consent of the member; or
            (2) if the member is unable to consent, if a medical 
        professional determines that--
                    (A) the future fertility of the member is 
                potentially jeopardized as a result of an injury or 
                illness described in subsection (a) or will be 
                potentially jeopardized as a result of treating such 
                injury or illness;
                    (B) the member lacks the capacity to consent to the 
                retrieval of gametes and is likely to regain such 
                capacity; and
                    (C) the retrieval of gametes under this section is 
                in the medical interest of the member.
    (c) Consent for Use of Retrieved Gametes.--Gametes retrieved from a 
member of the Armed Forces under subsection (a) may be used only--
            (1) with the specific consent of the member; or
            (2) if the member has lost the ability to consent 
        permanently, as determined by a medical professional, as 
        specified in an advance directive or testamentary instrument 
        executed by the member.
    (d) Disposal of Gametes.--In accordance with regulations prescribed 
by the Secretary for purpose of this subsection, the Secretary shall 
dispose of gametes retrieved from a member of the Armed Forces under 
subsection (a)--
            (1) with the specific consent of the member; or
            (2) if the member--
                    (A) has lost the ability to consent permanently, as 
                determined by a medical professional; and
                    (B) has not specified the use of their gametes in 
                an advance directive or testamentary instrument 
                executed by the member.

SEC. 103. CRYOPRESERVATION AND STORAGE OF GAMETES OF MEMBERS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES ON ACTIVE DUTY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide members of 
the Armed Forces on active duty in the Armed Forces with the 
opportunity to cryopreserve and store their gametes prior to deployment 
to a combat zone.
    (b) Period of Time.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide for the 
        cryopreservation and storage of gametes of any member of the 
        Armed Forces under subsection (a), at no cost to the member, in 
        a facility of the Department of Defense or of a private entity 
        pursuant to a contract under subsection (d) until the date that 
        is one year after the retirement, separation, or release of the 
        member from the Armed Forces.
            (2) Continued cryopreservation and storage.--At the end of 
        the one-year period specified in paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall permit an individual whose gametes were cryopreserved and 
        stored in a facility of the Department as described in that 
        paragraph to select, including pursuant to an advance medical 
        directive or military testamentary instrument completed under 
        subsection (c), one of the following options:
                    (A) To continue such cryopreservation and storage 
                in such facility with the cost of such cryopreservation 
                and storage borne by the individual.
                    (B) To transfer the gametes to a private 
                cryopreservation and storage facility selected by the 
                individual.
                    (C) To transfer the gametes to a facility of the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs if cryopreservation and 
                storage is available to the individual at such 
                facility.
            (3) Disposal of gametes.--If an individual described in 
        paragraph (2) does not make a selection under subparagraph (A), 
        (B), or (C) of such paragraph, the Secretary may dispose of the 
        gametes of the individual not earlier than the date that is 90 
        days after the end of the one-year period specified in 
        paragraph (1) with respect to the individual.
    (c) Advance Medical Directive and Military Testamentary 
Instrument.--A member of the Armed Forces who elects to cryopreserve 
and store their gametes under this section must complete an advance 
medical directive, as defined in section 1044c(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, and a military testamentary instrument, as defined in 
section 1044d(b) of such title, that explicitly specifies the use of 
their cryopreserved and stored gametes if such member dies or otherwise 
loses the capacity to consent to the use of their cryopreserved and 
stored gametes.
    (d) Agreements.--To carry out this section, the Secretary may enter 
into agreements with private entities that provide cryopreservation and 
storage services for gametes.

SEC. 104. COORDINATION BETWEEN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS ON FURNISHING OF FERTILITY TREATMENT AND 
              COUNSELING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall share best practices and facilitate referrals, 
as they consider appropriate, on the furnishing of fertility treatment 
and counseling to individuals eligible for the receipt of such 
counseling and treatment from the Secretaries.
    (b) Memoradum of Understanding.--The Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall enter into a memorandum of 
understanding--
            (1) providing that the Secretary of Defense will ensure 
        access by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to gametes of 
        veterans stored by the Department of Defense for purposes of 
        furnishing fertility treatment under section 1788 of title 38, 
        United States Code, as added by section 202; and
            (2) authorizing the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
        compensate the Department of Defense for the cryopreservation 
        and storage of gametes of veterans under section 103.

    TITLE II--REPRODUCTIVE, ADOPTION, AND CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE FOR 
                                VETERANS

SEC. 201. INCLUSION OF FERTILITY TREATMENT AND COUNSELING UNDER THE 
              DEFINITION OF MEDICAL SERVICES IN TITLE 38.

    Section 1701(6) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(H) Fertility treatment and counseling, including 
                treatment using assisted reproductive technology.''.

SEC. 202. FERTILITY TREATMENT AND COUNSELING FOR SPOUSES, PARTNERS, AND 
              GESTATIONAL SURROGATES OF VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter VIII of chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1788. Fertility treatment and counseling for spouses, partners, 
              and gestational surrogates of veterans
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary shall furnish fertility 
treatment and counseling, including through the use of assisted 
reproductive technology, to a spouse, partner, or gestational surrogate 
of a severely wounded, ill, or injured veteran who has an infertility 
condition incurred or aggravated in line of duty in the active 
military, naval, or air service and who is enrolled in the system of 
annual patient enrollment established under section 1705(a) of this 
title if the spouse, partner, or gestational surrogate and the veteran 
apply jointly for such counseling and treatment through a process 
prescribed by the Secretary.
    ``(2) Fertility treatment and counseling shall be furnished under 
paragraph (1) to a spouse, partner, or gestational surrogate of a 
veteran described in such paragraph without regard to the sex or 
marital status of such veteran.
    ``(3) In the case of in vitro fertilization treatment furnished 
under paragraph (1), the Secretary may furnish not more than three 
completed cycles or six attempted cycles of in vitro fertilization, 
whichever occurs first, to a spouse, partner, or gestational surrogate 
described in such paragraph.
    ``(b) Coordination of Care for Other Spouses, Partners, and 
Gestational Surrogates.--In the case of a spouse, partner, or 
gestational surrogate of a veteran not described in subsection (a) who 
is seeking fertility treatment and counseling, the Secretary may 
coordinate fertility treatment and counseling for such spouse, partner, 
or gestational surrogate.
    ``(c) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
require the Secretary--
            ``(1) to find or certify a gestational surrogate for a 
        veteran or to connect a gestational surrogate with a veteran; 
        or
            ``(2) to furnish maternity care to a spouse, partner, or 
        gestational surrogate of a veteran in addition to what is 
        otherwise required by law.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `fertility treatment' includes the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Procedures that use assisted reproductive 
                technology.
                    ``(B) Sperm retrieval.
                    ``(C) Egg retrieval.
                    ``(D) Artificial insemination.
                    ``(E) Embryo transfer.
                    ``(F) Such other treatments as the Secretary of 
                Veterans Affairs considers appropriate.
            ``(2) The term `assisted reproductive technology' includes 
        in vitro fertilization and other fertility treatments in which 
        both eggs and sperm are handled when clinically appropriate.
            ``(3) The term `partner', with respect to a veteran, means 
        an individual selected by the veteran who agrees to share with 
        the veteran the parental responsibilities with respect to any 
        child born as a result of the use of any fertility treatment 
        under this section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 17 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1787 the following new item:

``1788. Fertility treatment and counseling for spouses, partners, and 
                            gestational surrogates of veterans.''.

SEC. 203. ADOPTION ASSISTANCE FOR SEVERELY WOUNDED VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter VIII of chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, as amended by section 202, is further amended by adding at 
the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1789. Adoption assistance
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may pay an amount, not to exceed 
the limitation amount, to assist a covered veteran in the adoption of 
one or more children.
    ``(b) Covered Veteran.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
veteran is any severely wounded, ill, or injured veteran who--
            ``(1) has an infertility condition incurred or aggravated 
        in line of duty in the active military, naval, or air service; 
        and
            ``(2) is enrolled in the system of annual patient 
        enrollment established under section 1705(a) of this title.
    ``(c) Limitation Amount.--For purposes of this section, the 
limitation amount is the amount equal to the cost the Department would 
incur by paying the expenses of three adoptions by covered veterans, as 
determined by the Secretary.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 17 of such title, as amended by section 202, is further amended 
by inserting after the item relating to section 1788 the following new 
item:

``1789. Adoption assistance.''.

SEC. 204. ANNUAL REPORT ON FERTILITY TREATMENT AND COUNSELING FURNISHED 
              BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once each year 
thereafter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
fertility treatment and counseling furnished by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs during the year preceding the submittal of the report.
    (b) Elements.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include, for the period covered by the report, the following:
            (1) The number of veterans who received fertility treatment 
        or counseling furnished by the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
        disaggregated by era of military service of such veterans.
            (2) The number of spouses, partners, and gestational 
        surrogates of veterans who received fertility treatment or 
        counseling furnished by the Department.
            (3) The cost to the Department of furnishing fertility 
        treatment and counseling, disaggregated by cost of services and 
        administration.
            (4) The average cost to the Department per recipient of 
        fertility treatment and counseling.
            (5) In cases in which the Department furnished fertility 
        treatment through the use of assisted reproductive technology, 
        the average number of cycles per person furnished, 
        disaggregated by type of treatment.
            (6) A description of how fertility treatment and counseling 
        services of the Department are coordinated with similar 
        services of the Department of Defense.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``assisted 
reproductive technology'' and ``partner'' have the meanings given those 
term in section 1788 of title 38, United States Code, as added by 
section 202.

SEC. 205. REGULATIONS ON FURNISHING OF FERTILITY TREATMENT AND 
              COUNSELING AND ADOPTION ASSISTANCE BY DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
prescribe regulations--
            (1) on the furnishing of fertility treatment to veterans 
        using assisted reproductive technology;
            (2) to carry out section 1788 of title 38, United States 
        Code, as added by section 202; and
            (3) to carry out section 1789 of such title, as added by 
        section 203.
    (b) Limitation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and 
ending on the date on which the Secretary prescribes regulations under 
subsection (a), the Secretary may not furnish--
            (1) to a veteran any fertility treatment that uses an 
        assisted reproductive technology that the Secretary has not 
        used in the provision of a fertility treatment to a veteran 
        before the date of the enactment of this Act;
            (2) any fertility treatment or counseling under section 
        1788 of title 38, United States Code, as added by section 202; 
        or
            (3) any assistance under section 1789 of such title, as 
        added by section 203.
    (c) Assisted Reproductive Technology Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``assisted reproductive technology'' has the meaning given the 
term in section 1788 of such title, as added by section 202.

SEC. 206. FACILITATION OF REPRODUCTION AND INFERTILITY RESEARCH.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 73 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7330B. Facilitation of reproduction and infertility research
    ``(a) Facilitation of Research Required.--The Secretary shall 
facilitate research conducted collaboratively by the Secretary of 
Defense and the Secretary of Health and Human Services to improve the 
ability of the Department of Veterans Affairs to meet the long-term 
reproductive health care needs of veterans who have a genitourinary 
service-connected disability or a condition that was incurred or 
aggravated in line of duty in the active military, naval, or air 
service, such as a spinal cord injury, that affects the veterans' 
ability to reproduce.
    ``(b) Dissemination of Information.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that information produced by the research facilitated under this 
section that may be useful for other activities of the Veterans Health 
Administration is disseminated throughout the Veterans Health 
Administration.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 73 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 7330A the following new item:

``7330B. Facilitation of reproduction and infertility research.''.
    (c) Report.--Not later than three years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to Congress a report on the research activities conducted by the 
Secretary under section 7330B of title 38, United States Code, as added 
by subsection (a).

SEC. 207. REQUIREMENT TO IMPROVE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS WOMEN 
              VETERANS CONTACT CENTER.

    The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall enhance the capabilities of 
the women veterans contact center of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs--
            (1) to respond to requests by women veterans for assistance 
        with accessing health care and benefits furnished under the 
        laws administered by the Secretary; and
            (2) to refer such veterans to resources provided by the 
        Federal Government and the community to obtain assistance with 
        services not furnished by the Department.

SEC. 208. MODIFICATION OF PILOT PROGRAM ON COUNSELING IN RETREAT 
              SETTINGS FOR WOMEN VETERANS NEWLY SEPARATED FROM SERVICE 
              IN THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Increase in Number of Locations.--Subsection (c) of section 203 
of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 
(Public Law 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 1712A note) is amended by striking 
``three locations'' and inserting ``14 locations''.
    (b) Extension of Duration.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2018''.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--Subsection (f) of such 
section is amended by striking ``Secretary of Veterans Affairs for 
each'' and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
``Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out the pilot program--
            ``(1) for each of fiscal years 2010, 2011, and 2015, 
        $2,000,000; and
            ``(2) for each of fiscal years 2016, 2017, and 2018, such 
        sums as may be necessary.''.

SEC. 209. PROGRAM ON ASSISTANCE FOR CHILD CARE FOR CERTAIN VETERANS.

    (a) Assistance for Child Care for Certain Veterans Receiving Health 
Care.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 17 of title 38, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new section:
``Sec. 1709B. Assistance for child care for certain veterans receiving 
              health care
    ``(a) Program Required.--The Secretary shall carry out a program to 
provide, subject to subsection (b), assistance to qualified veterans 
described in subsection (c) to obtain child care so that such veterans 
can receive health care services described in subsection (c)(2).
    ``(b) Limitation on Period of Payments.--Assistance may be provided 
to a qualified veteran under this section for receipt of child care 
only during the period that the qualified veteran--
            ``(1) receives the types of health care services described 
        in subsection (c)(2) at a facility of the Department; and
            ``(2) requires travel to and return from such facility for 
        the receipt of such health care services.
    ``(c) Qualified Veterans.--For purposes of this section, a 
qualified veteran is a veteran who--
            ``(1) is the primary caretaker of a child or children; and
            ``(2)(A) receives from the Department--
                    ``(i) regular mental health care services;
                    ``(ii) intensive mental health care services; or
                    ``(iii) such other intensive health care services 
                that the Secretary determines that provision of 
                assistance to the veteran to obtain child care would 
                improve access to such health care services by the 
                veteran; or
            ``(B) is in need of regular or intensive mental health care 
        services from the Department, and but for lack of child care 
        services, would receive such health care services from the 
        Department.
    ``(d) Locations.--Not later than five years after the date of the 
enactment of the Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 
2015, the Secretary shall carry out the program at each medical center 
of the Department.
    ``(e) Forms of Child Care Assistance.--(1) Child care assistance 
under this section may include the following:
            ``(A) Stipends for the payment of child care offered by 
        licensed child care centers (either directly or through a 
        voucher program) that shall be, to the extent practicable, 
        modeled after the Department of Veterans Affairs Child Care 
        Subsidy Program established pursuant to section 630 of the 
        Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 2002 
        (Public Law 107-67; 115 Stat. 552).
            ``(B) Direct provision of child care at an on-site facility 
        of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            ``(C) Payments to private child care agencies.
            ``(D) Collaboration with facilities or programs of other 
        Federal departments or agencies.
            ``(E) Such other forms of assistance as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
    ``(2) In the case that child care assistance under this section is 
provided as a stipend under paragraph (1)(A), such stipend shall cover 
the full cost of such child care.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 205(e) of the Caregivers 
        and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 
        111-163; 38 U.S.C. 1710 note) is amended by striking ``December 
        31, 2015'' and inserting ``the date of the enactment of the 
        Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 2015''.
            (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 1709A the following new item:

``1709B. Assistance for child care for certain veterans receiving 
                            health care.''.
    (b) Assistance for Child Care for Certain Veterans Receiving 
Readjustment Counseling and Related Mental Health Services.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 17 of such title, 
        as amended by subsection (a)(1), is further amended by adding 
        at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1709C. Assistance for child care for certain veterans receiving 
              readjustment counseling and related mental health 
              services
    ``(a) Program Required.--The Secretary shall carry out a program to 
provide, subject to subsection (b), assistance to qualified veterans 
described in subsection (c) to obtain child care so that such veterans 
can receive readjustment counseling and related mental health services.
    ``(b) Limitation on Period of Payments.--Assistance may be provided 
to a qualified veteran under this section for receipt of child care 
only during the period that the qualified veteran receives readjustment 
counseling and related health care services at a Vet Center.
    ``(c) Qualified Veterans.--For purposes of this section, a 
qualified veteran is a veteran who--
            ``(1) is the primary caretaker of a child; and
            ``(2)(A) receives from the Department regular readjustment 
        counseling and related mental health services; or
            ``(B) is in need of readjustment counseling and related 
        mental health services from the Department, and but for lack of 
        child care services, would receive such counseling and services 
        from the Department.
    ``(d) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the program under 
this section in not fewer than three Readjustment Counseling Service 
Regions selected by the Secretary for purposes of the program.
    ``(e) Forms of Child Care Assistance.--(1) Child care assistance 
under this section may include the following:
            ``(A) Stipends for the payment of child care offered by 
        licensed child care centers (either directly or through a 
        voucher program) that shall be, to the extent practicable, 
        modeled after the Department of Veterans Affairs Child Care 
        Subsidy Program established pursuant to section 630 of the 
        Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 2002 
        (Public Law 107-67; 115 Stat. 552).
            ``(B) Payments to private child care agencies.
            ``(C) Collaboration with facilities or programs of other 
        Federal departments or agencies.
            ``(D) Such other forms of assistance as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
    ``(2) In the case that child care assistance under this subsection 
is provided as a stipend under paragraph (1)(A), such stipend shall 
cover the full cost of such child care.
    ``(f) Vet Center Defined.--In this section, the term `Vet Center' 
means a center for readjustment counseling and related mental health 
services for veterans under section 1712A of this title.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter, as amended by subsection (a)(3), is 
        further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
        1709B the following new item:

``1709C. Assistance for child care for certain veterans receiving 
                            readjustment counseling and related mental 
                            health services.''.
                                 <all>
