[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S.J. Res. 7 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. J. RES. 7

  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to 
     clarify the authority of Congress and the States to regulate 
corporations, limited liability companies, and other corporate entities 
established by the laws of any State, the United States, or any foreign 
                                 state.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            February 4, 2015

 Mr. Tester (for himself and Mr. Whitehouse) introduced the following 
joint resolution; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                             the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to 
     clarify the authority of Congress and the States to regulate 
corporations, limited liability companies, and other corporate entities 
established by the laws of any State, the United States, or any foreign 
                                 state.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each House 
concurring therein), That the following article is proposed as an 
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall be 
valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when 
ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States:

                              ``Article--

    ``Section 1. The rights enumerated in this Constitution and other 
rights retained by the people shall be the rights of natural persons.
    ``Section 2. As used in this Constitution, the terms `people', 
`person', and `citizen' shall not include a corporation, a limited 
liability company, or any other corporate entity established by the 
laws of any State, the United States, or any foreign state.
    ``Section 3. A corporate entity described in section 2 shall be 
subject to such regulation as the people, through representatives in 
Congress and State representatives, may determine reasonable, 
consistent with the powers of Congress and the States under this 
Constitution.
    ``Section 4. Nothing in this Constitution shall be construed to 
limit the rights enumerated in this Constitution and other rights 
retained by the people, which are unalienable.''.
                                 <all>
