[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 793 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 127
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 793

                          [Report No. 114-638]

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1270) to amend the 
  Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the amendments made by the 
 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which disqualify expenses 
  for over-the-counter drugs under health savings accounts and health 
                    flexible spending arrangements.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 21, 2016

   Mr. Burgess, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1270) to amend the 
  Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the amendments made by the 
 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which disqualify expenses 
  for over-the-counter drugs under health savings accounts and health 
                    flexible spending arrangements.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1270) to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the amendments made by the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which disqualify expenses 
for over-the-counter drugs under health savings accounts and health 
flexible spending arrangements. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the 
nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means 
now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute 
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-60 shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, 
are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
                                                 House Calendar No. 127

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 793

                          [Report No. 114-638]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1270) to amend the 
  Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the amendments made by the 
 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which disqualify expenses 
  for over-the-counter drugs under health savings accounts and health 
                    flexible spending arrangements.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 21, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
