[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 908 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 908

   To include the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands in the California 
     Coastal National Monument as a part of the National Landscape 
              Conservation System, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 12, 2015

  Ms. Eshoo introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To include the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands in the California 
     Coastal National Monument as a part of the National Landscape 
              Conservation System, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``California Coastal 
National Monument Santa Cruz Redwoods Expansion Act''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this Act:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map created by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, entitled ``Santa Cruz Redwoods 
        California Coastal National Monument Addition'' and dated 
        February 3, 2015.
            (2) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the California 
        Coastal National Monument established by Presidential 
        Proclamation 7264.
            (3) Santa cruz redwoods public lands.--The term ``Santa 
        Cruz Redwoods Public Lands'' means the Federal land comprising 
        approximately 5,800 acres in Santa Cruz County, California, as 
        generally depicted on the map.
            (4) Presidential proclamation 7264.--The term 
        ``Presidential Proclamation 7264'' means Presidential 
        Proclamation Number 7264, dated January 11, 2000 (65 Fed. Reg. 
        2821).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS; PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands contain 
        significant and diverse natural landscapes including six 
        watersheds, redwood and riparian forests, freshwater wetlands, 
        and rolling coastal terrace grasslands in the Santa Cruz 
        Mountains that should be preserved for present and future 
        generations;
            (2) the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands are habitat for 
        numerous wildlife populations including endangered and rare 
        species such as the California red-legged frog, the American 
        peregrine falcon, coho salmon, and steelhead trout;
            (3) the ocean and coastal ecosystems adjacent to and 
        visible from the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands are within 
        the California Coastal Monument, and contain habitat for 
        endangered and unique marine species including gray whales, sea 
        otters, and harbor seals;
            (4) the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands contain threatened 
        vegetation communities such as purple needlegrass and riparian 
        red alder forest;
            (5) the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands and surrounding 
        coastal lands have been used by humans since prehistoric times 
        and were historically inhabited by the native Ohlone people;
            (6) the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands are historically 
        associated with adjacent lands managed for the enjoyment of 
        current and future generations, including Coast Dairies State 
        Park and Wilder Ranch State Park;
            (7) the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands represent a model 
        partnership where future management can be successfully 
        accomplished among the Federal Government, State of California, 
        Santa Cruz County, local communities, and private landowners;
            (8) permanent protection of the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public 
        Lands will provide important economic benefits to surrounding 
        communities, and has broad public support in the community;
            (9) the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands will make a 
        significant addition to the California Coastal National 
        Monument and National Landscape Conservation System 
        administered by the Bureau of Land Management of the Department 
        of the Interior; and
            (10) statutory protection would ensure that the Santa Cruz 
        Redwoods Public Lands remain a part of the historical, 
        cultural, and natural heritage of the United States and a 
        source of inspiration for the people of the United States.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to protect, conserve, and 
enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations 
the unique and nationally important historical, natural, cultural, 
scientific, educational, and scenic values of the Santa Cruz Redwoods 
Public Lands, while allowing certain recreational and research 
activities to continue.

SEC. 3. EXPANSION OF CALIFORNIA COASTAL NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Monument established by 
Presidential Proclamation 7264 is expanded to include the Federal land 
shown on the map.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall create a map and 
        boundary description of the land added to the Monument by this 
        Act.
            (2) Force and effect.--The map and boundary description 
        described under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and 
        effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary 
        may correct any minor errors in the map and boundary 
        descriptions.
            (3) Availability of map and boundary description.--The map 
        and boundary description described under paragraph (1) shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary 
shall manage the land added to the Monument by this Act--
            (1) as a part of the Monument;
            (2) by allowing only such uses of the Monument as will 
        further the purposes for which the Monument is established; and
            (3) in accordance with Presidential Proclamation 7264.
    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize an 
        amendment to the Monument management plan for the long-term 
        protection and management of the land added to the Monument by 
        this Act.
            (2) Requirements.--The plan amendment shall--
                    (A) be developed with an opportunity for full 
                public participation; and
                    (B) describe the appropriate uses and management of 
                the land consistent with this Act.
    (c) Motorized and Mechanized Transport.--Except as needed for 
emergency or authorized administrative purposes, the use of motorized 
and mechanized vehicles in the Monument shall be permitted only on 
roads and trails designated for their use.
    (d) Incorporation of Land and Interests.--
            (1) Authority.--The Secretary may acquire non-Federal land 
        or interests in land within or adjacent to the land added to 
        the Monument by this Act only through exchange, donation, or 
        purchase from a willing seller.
            (2) Management.--Any land or interests in land within or 
        adjacent to the land added to the Monument by this Act acquired 
        by the United States after the date of enactment of this Act 
        shall be added to and administered as part of the Monument.
    (e) Overflights.--Nothing in this Act--
            (1) restricts or precludes overflights, including low-level 
        overflights or military, commercial, and general aviation 
        overflights that can be seen or heard within the land added to 
        the Monument by this Act;
            (2) restricts or precludes the designation or creation of 
        new units of special use airspace or the establishment of 
        military flight training routes over the land added to the 
        Monument by this Act; or
            (3) modifies regulations governing low-level overflights 
        above the adjacent Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary.
    (f) Restoration.--Nothing in this Act affects the ongoing 
restoration and reclamation being performed pursuant to the December 2, 
1968 lease between the Coast Dairies and Land Company and the Lone Star 
Cement Corporation, or under a renegotiation or renewal of that lease, 
as long as such restoration and reclamation furthers the purpose of the 
Monument described in section 2(b) and is performed in accordance 
with--
            (1) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
        U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
            (2) any other applicable law.
    (g) Native American Uses.--Nothing in this Act enlarges, 
diminishes, or modifies the rights of any Indian Tribe or Indian 
religious community.
    (h) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--The expansion of the Monument is not 
        intended to lead to the establishment of protective perimeters 
        or buffer zones around the land included in the Monument by 
        this Act.
            (2) Activities outside the monument.--The fact that 
        activities outside the Monument can be seen or heard within the 
        land added to the Monument by this Act shall not, of itself, 
        preclude those activities or uses up to the boundary of the 
        Monument.
    (i) Grazing.--Nothing in this Act affects the grazing of livestock 
within the Santa Cruz Redwoods Public Lands.
    (j) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
within the Santa Cruz Redwoods expansion to the Monument is withdrawn 
from--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) leasing or disposition under all laws relating to--
                    (A) minerals; and
                    (B) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
    (k) National Landscape Conservation System.--The Secretary shall 
manage the Monument as part of the National Landscape Conservation 
System.
                                 <all>
