[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2596 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2596

 To amend title 10, United States Code, to permit veterans who have a 
  service-connected, permanent disability rated as total to travel on 
military aircraft in the same manner and to the same extent as retired 
          members of the Armed Forces entitled to such travel.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 25, 2016

Mr. Heller (for himself and Mr. Tester) introduced the following bill; 
  which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 10, United States Code, to permit veterans who have a 
  service-connected, permanent disability rated as total to travel on 
military aircraft in the same manner and to the same extent as retired 
          members of the Armed Forces entitled to such travel.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. TRANSPORTATION ON MILITARY AIRCRAFT ON A SPACE-AVAILABLE 
              BASIS FOR DISABLED VETERANS WITH A SERVICE-CONNECTED, 
              PERMANENT DISABILITY RATED AS TOTAL.

    (a) Availability of Transportation.--Section 2641b of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f) Special Priority for Certain Disabled Veterans.--(1) The 
Secretary of Defense shall provide transportation on scheduled and 
unscheduled military flights within the continental United States and 
on scheduled overseas flights operated by the Air Mobility Command on a 
space-available basis for any veteran with a service-connected, 
permanent disability rated as total.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1), in establishing space-
available transportation priorities under the travel program, the 
Secretary shall provide transportation under paragraph (1) on the same 
basis as such transportation is provided to members of the armed forces 
entitled to retired or retainer pay.
    ``(3) The requirement to provide transportation on Department of 
Defense aircraft on a space-available basis on the priority basis 
described in paragraph (2) to veterans covered by this subsection 
applies whether or not the travel program is established under this 
section.
    ``(4) In this subsection, the terms `veteran' and `service-
connected' have the meanings given those terms in section 101 of title 
38.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Section 2641b(f) of title 10, United States 
Code, as added by subsection (a)(2), shall take effect at the end of 
the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
