[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 467 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 467

     Establishing the Select Committee on Gun Violence Prevention.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 8, 2015

  Mr. Thompson of California (for himself, Ms. Esty, Mr. Fattah, Ms. 
  Kelly of Illinois, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. 
Price of North Carolina, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Scott of Virginia, 
Ms. Speier, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, and Ms. Pelosi) submitted the 
   following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
     Establishing the Select Committee on Gun Violence Prevention.

    Resolved,

SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is hereby established the Select Committee on Gun Violence 
Prevention (hereafter referred to as the ``Select Committee'').

SEC. 2. COMPOSITION.

    (a) Composition.--The Select Committee shall be composed of 12 
Members appointed by the Speaker, of whom 6 shall be appointed after 
consultation with the Minority Leader.
    (b) Chair and Ranking Minority Member.--The Speaker shall designate 
one Member to serve as chair of the Select Committee, and the Minority 
Leader shall designate one Member to serve as ranking minority member 
of the Select Committee.
    (c) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Select Committee shall be filled 
in the same manner as the original appointment.

SEC. 3. DUTIES.

    (a) Investigation and Study.--The Select Committee is authorized 
and directed to conduct a full and complete investigation and study, 
and to issue a report of its findings to the House, regarding each of 
the following:
            (1) The causes of mass shootings.
            (2) Methods to improve the Federal firearms purchaser 
        background check system.
            (3) Connections between access to firearms and dangerously 
        mentally ill individuals.
            (4) Strengthening Federal penalties for trafficking and 
        straw purchasing of firearms.
            (5) Closing loopholes that allow some domestic abusers 
        continued access to firearms.
            (6) Linkages between firearms and suicide.
            (7) Gun violence's effect on public health.
            (8) The correlation between State gun violence prevention 
        laws and the incidence of gun violence.
            (9) The importance of having reliable and accurate 
        information on gun violence and its toll on our Nation.
            (10) The implementation of effective gun violence 
        prevention laws in accordance with the Second Amendment to the 
        Constitution.
            (11) Rates of gun violence in large metropolitan areas.
    (b) Hearings.--In carrying out its duties under subsection (a), the 
Select Committee shall hold at least one public hearing in the District 
of Columbia and at least two public hearings in locations outside of 
the District of Columbia.

SEC. 4. RULES AND PROCEDURES.

    Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives shall apply to 
the Select Committee in the same manner as such rule applies to a 
standing committee of the House, except to the extent inconsistent with 
this resolution.

SEC. 5. STAFF; FUNDING.

    (a) Staff.--The chair of the Select Committee, upon consultation 
with the ranking minority member of the Select Committee, may employ 
and fix the compensation of such staff as the chair considers necessary 
to carry out this resolution.
    (b) Funding.--There shall be paid out of the applicable accounts of 
the House of Representatives such sums as may be necessary for the 
expenses of the Select Committee. Such payments shall be made on 
vouchers signed by the chair of the Select Committee and approved in 
the manner directed by the Committee on House Administration. Amounts 
made available under this subsection shall be expended in accordance 
with regulations prescribed by the Committee on House Administration.

SEC. 6. RECOMMENDATIONS.

    (a) Final Report.--The Select Committee shall issue a final report 
and recommendations, including legislative proposals, not later than 60 
days after the date of the adoption of this resolution.
    (b) Interim Findings and Reports.--In addition to the final report 
and recommendations required under subsection (a), the Select Committee 
may issue such interim findings and reports as it deems necessary.

SEC. 7. TERMINATION.

    (a) In General.--The Select Committee and all authority granted in 
this resolution shall expire upon the issuance by the Select Committee 
of the final report and recommendations under section 6(a).
    (b) Records.--Upon the dissolution of the Select Committee, the 
records, files, and materials of the Select Committee shall be 
transferred to the Clerk of the House.
                                 <all>
