[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4230 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4230

To authorize the establishment of the Stonewall National Historic Site 
in the State of New York as a unit of the National Park System, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 10, 2015

  Mr. Nadler introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize the establishment of the Stonewall National Historic Site 
in the State of New York as a unit of the National Park System, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Stonewall National Historic Site 
Establishment Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) the Stonewall National Historic Landmark in New York 
        City, designated in 2000, commemorates the site of the citizen 
        uprising of June 28-July 3, 1969, that inspired the modern 
        Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) civil rights 
        movement in America;
            (2) the Stonewall uprising became the major catalyst for 
        change in the self-awareness of the LGBT community, as well as 
        in the perception and acceptance of LGBT individuals within the 
        United States, and now represents to the Nation and the world 
        the struggle for LGBT civil rights; and
            (3) the Stonewall National Historic Landmark, within the 
        Greenwich Village Historic District, consists of the former 
        Stonewall Inn at 51-53 Christopher Street, that was raided by 
        police on June 28, 1969, as well as Christopher Park, 
        Christopher Street, Grove Street, Gay Street, Waverly Place, 
        Greenwich Avenue, Sixth Avenue, and West 10th Street between 
        Sixth Avenue and Seventh Avenue South, which are all associated 
        with the uprising.
    (b) Purpose.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to help preserve, protect, and interpret the site of 
        the Stonewall uprising for the benefit of present and future 
        generations; and
            (2) to enhance understanding of the discrimination against 
        LGBT individuals that led to the Stonewall uprising and of the 
        ongoing struggle to achieve civil rights.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) National historic site.--The term ``National Historic 
        Site'' means the Stonewall National Historic Site in New York 
        City, New York, authorized to be established as a unit of the 
        National Park System under section 4(a) of this Act.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Stonewall National Historic Site, Proposed Boundary'', 
        numbered 668/129,921, and dated September 2015.
            (3) City of new york.--The term ``City'' means the 
        government of the City of New York in the State of New York.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New York.

SEC. 4. STONEWALL NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), there is 
        established in the State a unit of the National Park System to 
        be known as the ``Stonewall National Historic Site''.
            (2) Conditions for establishment.--The National Historic 
        Site shall not be established as a unit of the National Park 
        System until the date on which the Secretary has determined 
        that--
                    (A) the Secretary has acquired sufficient land or 
                an interest in land within the boundary of the National 
                Historic Site to constitute a manageable unit, as 
                determined by the Secretary; and
                    (B) the Secretary has entered into a written 
                agreement with the City, as authorized and described in 
                subsection (c).
    (b) Boundary.--
            (1) In general.--The boundary of the National Historic Site 
        shall be identical to the boundary of the Stonewall National 
        Historic Landmark, as generally depicted on the Map.
            (2) Availability of map.--The Map shall be available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National 
        Park Service, Department of the Interior.
    (c) Agreement.--The Secretary is authorized to enter into an 
agreement with the City that delineates the respective roles and 
responsibilities of the National Park Service and the City in the 
operation, maintenance, and interpretation of the National Historic 
Site.
    (d) Publication of Notice.--Not later than 60 days after the date 
on which the conditions in subsection (a)(2) are satisfied, the 
Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the 
establishment of the National Historic Site as a unit of the National 
Park System.
    (e) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary is authorized to acquire by 
donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds from a willing 
seller, or exchange--
            (1) lands or interests in land within the boundary of the 
        National Historic Site; and
            (2) lands or interests in land in the vicinity of the 
        National Historic Site for the purpose of providing park 
        administration and visitor service facilities, as determined by 
        the Secretary.
    (f) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        National Historic Site in accordance with this Act and with the 
        laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System, 
        including--
                    (A) the National Park Service Organic Act (section 
                100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 
                100752, 100753 and 102101 of title 54, United States 
                Code); and
                    (B) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States Code.
            (2) Cooperative agreements.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may enter into 
                cooperative agreements with the State, City, units of 
                local government, organizations, or individuals to 
                further the purposes of this Act.
                    (B) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                            (i) Federal share.--The Federal share of 
                        the total cost of any activity carried out 
                        under this paragraph shall not exceed 50 
                        percent.
                            (ii) Form of non-federal share.--The non-
                        Federal share of the cost of carrying out an 
                        activity under this paragraph may be in the 
                        form of in-kind contributions or goods or 
                        services, fairly valued.
    (g) General Management Plan.--Not later than 3 years after the date 
on which funds are made available to carry out this section, the 
Secretary, in consultation with the City, shall prepare a general 
management plan for the National Historic Site in accordance with 
section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.
                                 <all>
