[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3128 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 162
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3128

                          [Report No. 114-215]

 Making appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 21, 2015

    Mr. Carter, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
following bill; which was committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of Homeland Security for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                 DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS

            Office of the Secretary and Executive Management

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, as authorized by section 102 of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (6 U.S.C. 112), and executive management of the Department of 
Homeland Security, as authorized by law, $131,859,000: Provided, That 
not to exceed $40,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That all official costs 
associated with the use of government aircraft by Department of 
Homeland Security personnel to support official travel of the Secretary 
and the Deputy Secretary shall be paid from amounts made available for 
the Immediate Office of the Secretary and the Immediate Office of the 
Deputy Secretary.

              Office of the Under Secretary for Management

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Management, as authorized by sections 701 through 705 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 341 through 345), $193,646,000, of which 
not to exceed $2,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses: Provided, That of the total amount made available under this 
heading, $2,931,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2017, 
solely for the alteration and improvement of facilities, tenant 
improvements, and relocation costs to consolidate Department 
headquarters operations at the Nebraska Avenue Complex; and $9,559,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2017, for the Human 
Resources Information Technology program: Provided further, That the 
Under Secretary for Management shall include in the President's budget 
proposal for fiscal year 2017, submitted pursuant to section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, a Comprehensive Acquisition Status 
Report, which shall include the information required under the heading 
``Office of the Under Secretary for Management'' under title I of 
division D of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 
112-74), and shall submit quarterly updates to such report not later 
than 45 days after the completion of each quarter.

                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer, as authorized by section 103 of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (6 U.S.C. 113), $56,420,000: Provided, That the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives, at the time the 
President's budget proposal for fiscal year 2017 is submitted pursuant 
to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the Future Years 
Homeland Security Program, as authorized by section 874 of Public Law 
107-296 (6 U.S.C. 454).

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, as authorized by section 103 of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (6 U.S.C. 113), and Department-wide technology investments, 
$308,488,000; of which $104,957,000 shall be available for salaries and 
expenses; and of which $203,531,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017, shall be available for development and acquisition 
of information technology equipment, software, services, and related 
activities for the Department of Homeland Security.

                        Analysis and Operations

    For necessary expenses for intelligence analysis and operations 
coordination activities, as authorized by title II of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.), $264,898,000; of which not 
to exceed $3,825 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses; of which not to exceed $2,000,000 is available for facility 
needs associated with secure space at fusion centers, including 
improvements to buildings; and of which $111,110,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.), $141,188,000; of which not to exceed $300,000 may be used 
for certain confidential operational expenses, including the payment of 
informants, to be expended at the direction of the Inspector General.

                                TITLE II

               SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND INVESTIGATIONS

              United States Customs and Border Protection

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for enforcement of laws relating to border 
security, immigration, customs, agricultural inspections and regulatory 
activities related to plant and animal imports, and transportation of 
unaccompanied minor aliens; purchase and lease of up to 7,500 (6,500 
for replacement only) police-type vehicles; and contracting with 
individuals for personal services abroad; $8,695,238,000; of which 
$3,274,000 shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for 
administrative expenses related to the collection of the Harbor 
Maintenance Fee pursuant to section 9505(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 9505(c)(3)) and notwithstanding section 
1511(e)(1) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 551(e)(1)); 
of which not to exceed $34,425 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses; of which such sums as become available in the 
Customs User Fee Account, except sums subject to section 13031(f)(3) of 
the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 
58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that account; of which not to exceed 
$150,000 shall be available for payment for rental space in connection 
with preclearance operations; and of which not to exceed $1,000,000 
shall be for awards of compensation to informants, to be accounted for 
solely under the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland Security: 
Provided, That for fiscal year 2016, the overtime limitation prescribed 
in section 5(c)(1) of the Act of February 13, 1911 (19 U.S.C. 
267(c)(1)) shall be $35,000; and notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, none of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to 
compensate any employee of United States Customs and Border Protection 
for overtime, from whatever source, in an amount that exceeds such 
limitation, except in individual cases determined by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, or the designee of the Secretary, to be necessary 
for national security purposes, to prevent excessive costs, or in cases 
of immigration emergencies: Provided further, That the Border Patrol 
shall maintain an active duty presence of not less than 21,370 full-
time equivalent agents protecting the borders of the United States in 
the fiscal year.

                        automation modernization

    For necessary expenses for United States Customs and Border 
Protection for operation and improvement of automated systems, 
including salaries and expenses, $846,245,000; of which $468,111,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2018; and of which not less 
than $153,614,000 shall be for the development of the Automated 
Commercial Environment.

        border security fencing, infrastructure, and technology

    For necessary expenses for border security fencing, infrastructure, 
and technology, $439,430,000, of which $191,539,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018, for development and deployment.

                       air and marine operations

    For necessary expenses for the operations, maintenance, and 
procurement of marine vessels, aircraft, unmanned aircraft systems, the 
Air and Marine Operations Center, and other related equipment of the 
air and marine program, including salaries and expenses, operational 
training, and mission-related travel, the operations of which include 
the following: the interdiction of narcotics and other goods; the 
provision of support to Federal, State, and local agencies in the 
enforcement or administration of laws enforced by the Department of 
Homeland Security; and, at the discretion of the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, the provision of assistance to Federal, State, and local 
agencies in other law enforcement and emergency humanitarian efforts; 
$784,934,000; of which $83,200,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018 for procurement: Provided, That no aircraft or other 
related equipment, with the exception of aircraft that are one of a 
kind and have been identified as excess to United States Customs and 
Border Protection requirements and aircraft that have been damaged 
beyond repair, shall be transferred to any other Federal agency, 
department, or office outside of the Department of Homeland Security 
during fiscal year 2016 without prior notice to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives: Provided 
further, That funding made available under this heading shall be 
available for customs expenses when necessary to maintain or to 
temporarily increase operations in Puerto Rico.

                 construction and facilities management

    For necessary expenses to plan, acquire, construct, renovate, 
equip, furnish, operate, manage, and maintain buildings, facilities, 
and related infrastructure necessary for the administration and 
enforcement of the laws relating to customs, immigration, and border 
security, $341,356,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020.

           United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for enforcement of immigration and customs 
laws, detention and removals, and investigations, including 
intellectual property rights and overseas vetted units operations; and 
purchase and lease of up to 3,790 (2,350 for replacement only) police-
type vehicles; $5,736,286,000; of which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall 
be available until expended for conducting special operations under 
section 3131 of the Customs Enforcement Act of 1986 (19 U.S.C. 2081); 
of which not to exceed $11,475 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses; of which not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be for 
awards of compensation to informants, to be accounted for solely under 
the certificate of the Secretary of Homeland Security; of which not 
less than $305,000 shall be for promotion of public awareness 
activities to counter child exploitation; of which not less than 
$5,400,000 shall be used to facilitate agreements consistent with 
section 287(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1357(g)); and of which not to exceed $11,216,000 shall be available to 
fund or reimburse other Federal agencies for the costs associated with 
the care, maintenance, and repatriation of smuggled aliens unlawfully 
present in the United States: Provided, That of the total amount made 
available under this heading, $100,000,000 shall be withheld from 
obligation until the Director of United States Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement submits to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report detailing the number of full-
time equivalent employees hired and lost through attrition for the 
period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on June 30, 2016: 
Provided further, That, of the total amount available under this 
heading, $5,000,000 shall be withheld from obligation until the 
Director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement briefs 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on efforts to increase the number of communities and 
law enforcement agencies participating in the Priority Enforcement 
Program including details as to the jurisdiction and law enforcement 
agency approached and the level of participation on a by-community 
basis:  Provided further, That none of the funds made available under 
this heading shall be available to compensate any employee for overtime 
in an annual amount in excess of $35,000, except that the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, or the designee of the Secretary, may waive that 
amount as necessary for national security purposes and in cases of 
immigration emergencies: Provided further, That of the total amount 
provided, $15,770,000 shall be for activities to enforce laws against 
forced child labor, of which not to exceed $6,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That of the total amount 
available, not less than $1,600,000,000 shall be available to identify 
aliens convicted of a crime who may be deportable, and to remove them 
from the United States once they are judged deportable: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Homeland Security shall prioritize the 
identification and removal of aliens convicted of a crime by the 
severity of that crime: Provided further, That funding made available 
under this heading shall maintain a level of not less than 34,000 
detention beds through September 30, 2016: Provided further, That of 
the total amount provided, not less than $3,266,766,000 is for 
detention, enforcement, and removal operations, including 
transportation of unaccompanied minor aliens: Provided further, That of 
the total amount provided for the Visa Security Program and 
international investigations, $13,300,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2017: Provided further, That not less than $15,000,000 
shall be available for investigation of intellectual property rights 
violations, including operation of the National Intellectual Property 
Rights Coordination Center: Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided under this heading may be used to continue a delegation of law 
enforcement authority authorized under section 287(g) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1357(g)) if the Department of 
Homeland Security Inspector General determines that the terms of the 
agreement governing the delegation of authority have been materially 
violated: Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
heading may be used to continue any contract for the provision of 
detention services if the two most recent overall performance 
evaluations received by the contracted facility are less than 
``adequate'' or the equivalent median score in any subsequent 
performance evaluation system: Provided further, That nothing under 
this heading shall prevent United States Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement from exercising those authorities provided under 
immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17))) during priority operations 
pertaining to aliens convicted of a crime: Provided further, That 
without regard to the limitation as to time and condition of section 
503(d) of this Act, the Secretary may propose to reprogram into and 
transfer funds within this appropriation necessary to ensure the 
detention of aliens prioritized for removal.

                        automation modernization

    For necessary expenses of immigration and customs enforcement 
automated systems, $73,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses to plan, construct, renovate, equip, and 
maintain buildings and facilities necessary for the administration and 
enforcement of the laws relating to customs and immigration, 
$5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019.

                 Transportation Security Administration

                           aviation security

    For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security 
Administration related to providing civil aviation security services 
pursuant to the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (Public Law 
107-71; 115 Stat. 597; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note), $5,558,923,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017; of which not to exceed $7,650 shall 
be for official reception and representation expenses: Provided, That 
any award to deploy explosives detection systems shall be based on 
risk, the airport's current reliance on other screening solutions, 
lobby congestion resulting in increased security concerns, high injury 
rates, airport readiness, and increased cost effectiveness: Provided 
further, That security service fees authorized under section 44940 of 
title 49, United States Code, shall be credited to this appropriation 
as offsetting collections and shall be available only for aviation 
security: Provided further, That the sum appropriated under this 
heading from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar 
basis as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 
2016 so as to result in a final fiscal year appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at not more than $3,428,923,000: Provided 
further, That the funds deposited pursuant to section 44945 of title 
49, United States Code, that are currently unavailable for obligation 
are hereby permanently cancelled: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 44923 of title 49, United States Code, for 
fiscal year 2016, any funds in the Aviation Security Capital Fund 
established by section 44923(h) of title 49, United States Code, may be 
used for the procurement and installation of explosives detection 
systems or for the issuance of other transaction agreements for the 
purpose of funding projects described in section 44923(a) of such 
title: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, for the current fiscal year and each fiscal year hereafter, mobile 
explosives detection systems purchased and deployed using funds made 
available under this heading may be moved and redeployed to meet 
evolving passenger and baggage screening security priorities at 
airports: Provided further, That none of the funds made available in 
this Act may be used for any recruiting or hiring of personnel into the 
Transportation Security Administration that would cause the agency to 
exceed a staffing level of 45,000 full-time equivalent screeners: 
Provided further, That the preceding proviso shall not apply to 
personnel hired as part-time employees: Provided further, That the 
reporting requirement in the ninth proviso under the heading 
``Transportation Security Administration, Aviation Security'' in the 
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 
114-4), shall apply in fiscal year 2016, except that the reference to 
``this Act'' shall be treated as referring to this Act: Provided 
further, That Members of the United States House of Representatives and 
United States Senate, including the leadership; the heads of Federal 
agencies and commissions, including the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, 
Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries of the Department of 
Homeland Security; the United States Attorney General, Deputy Attorney 
General, Assistant Attorneys General, and the United States Attorneys; 
and senior members of the Executive Office of the President, including 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall not be 
exempt from Federal passenger and baggage screening.

                    surface transportation security

    For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security 
Administration related to surface transportation security activities, 
$106,894,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

                        intelligence and vetting

    For necessary expenses for the development and implementation of 
intelligence and vetting activities, $216,203,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017.

                    transportation security support

    For necessary expenses of the Transportation Security 
Administration related to transportation security support pursuant to 
the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (Public Law 107-71; 115 
Stat. 597; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note), $901,442,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017.

                              Coast Guard

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation and maintenance of the 
Coast Guard, not otherwise provided for; purchase or lease of not to 
exceed 25 passenger motor vehicles, which shall be for replacement 
only; purchase or lease of small boats for contingent and emergent 
requirements (at a unit cost of no more than $700,000) and repairs and 
service-life replacements, not to exceed a total of $31,000,000; 
purchase or lease of boats necessary for overseas deployments and 
activities; purchase or lease of other equipment (at a unit cost of no 
more than $250,000); minor shore construction projects not exceeding 
$1,000,000 in total cost on any location; payments pursuant to section 
156 of Public Law 97-377 (42 U.S.C. 402 note; 96 Stat. 1920); and 
recreation and welfare; $6,899,288,000, of which $340,000,000 shall be 
for defense-related activities; of which $24,500,000 shall be derived 
from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to carry out the purposes of 
section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 
2712(a)(5)); and of which not to exceed $15,300 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses: Provided, That none of the funds 
made available by this Act shall be for expenses incurred for 
recreational vessels under section 12114 of title 46, United States 
Code, except to the extent fees are collected from owners of yachts and 
credited to this appropriation: Provided further, That to the extent 
fees are insufficient to pay expenses of recreational vessel 
documentation under such section 12114, and there is a backlog of 
recreational vessel applications, then personnel performing non-
recreational vessel documentation functions under subchapter II of 
chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code, may perform documentation 
under section 12114: Provided further, That, without regard to the 
limitation as to time and condition of section 503(d) of this Act, 
after June 30, up to $10,000,000 may be reprogrammed to or from 
Military Pay and Allowances in accordance with subsections (a), (b), 
and (c) of section 503.

                environmental compliance and restoration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the environmental compliance 
and restoration functions of the Coast Guard under chapter 19 of title 
14, United States Code, $13,269,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2020.

                            reserve training

    For necessary expenses of the Coast Guard Reserve, as authorized by 
law; operations and maintenance of the Coast Guard reserve program; 
personnel and training costs; and equipment and services; $110,614,000.

              acquisition, construction, and improvements

    For necessary expenses of acquisition, construction, renovation, 
and improvement of aids to navigation, shore facilities, vessels, and 
aircraft, including equipment related thereto; and maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment; as 
authorized by law; $1,301,289,000; of which $20,000,000 shall be 
derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to carry out the 
purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 
U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)); and of which the following amounts shall be 
available until September 30, 2020 (except as subsequently specified): 
$21,000,000 for military family housing; $616,400,000 to acquire, 
effect major repairs to, renovate, or improve vessels, small boats, and 
related equipment; $295,000,000 to acquire, effect major repairs to, 
renovate, or improve aircraft or increase aviation capability; 
$67,920,000 for other acquisition programs; $184,100,000 for shore 
facilities and aids to navigation, including facilities at Department 
of Defense installations used by the Coast Guard; and $116,869,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2016, for personnel compensation 
and benefits and related costs: Provided, That the Commandant of the 
Coast Guard shall submit to the Congress, at the time the President's 
budget proposal for fiscal year 2017 is submitted pursuant to section 
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, a future-years capital 
investment plan as described in the second proviso under the heading 
``Coast Guard, Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements'' in the 
Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 
114-4), which shall be subject to the requirements in the third and 
fourth provisos under such heading.

              research, development, test, and evaluation

    For necessary expenses for applied scientific research, 
development, test, and evaluation; and for maintenance, rehabilitation, 
lease, and operation of facilities and equipment; as authorized by law; 
$18,135,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, of which 
$500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to 
carry out the purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the Oil Pollution Act 
of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2712(a)(5)): Provided, That there may be credited to 
and used for the purposes of this appropriation funds received from 
State and local governments, other public authorities, private sources, 
and foreign countries for expenses incurred for research, development, 
testing, and evaluation.

                              retired pay

    For retired pay, including the payment of obligations otherwise 
chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, payments under 
the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits Plans, 
payment for career status bonuses, concurrent receipts, and combat-
related special compensation under the National Defense Authorization 
Act, and payments for medical care of retired personnel and their 
dependents under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, 
$1,604,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                      United States Secret Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Secret Service, 
including purchase of not to exceed 652 vehicles for police-type use 
for replacement only; hire of passenger motor vehicles; purchase of 
motorcycles made in the United States; hire of aircraft; services of 
expert witnesses at such rates as may be determined by the Director of 
the United States Secret Service; rental of buildings in the District 
of Columbia, and fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other facilities 
on private or other property not in Government ownership or control, as 
may be necessary to perform protective functions; payment of per diem 
or subsistence allowances to employees in cases in which a protective 
assignment on the actual day or days of the visit of a protectee 
requires an employee to work 16 hours per day or to remain overnight at 
a post of duty; conduct of and participation in firearms matches; 
presentation of awards; travel of United States Secret Service 
employees on protective missions without regard to the limitations on 
such expenditures in this or any other Act if approval is obtained in 
advance from the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives; research and development; grants to conduct 
behavioral research in support of protective research and operations; 
and payment in advance for commercial accommodations as may be 
necessary to perform protective functions; $1,832,813,000; of which not 
to exceed $19,125 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses; of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be to provide technical 
assistance and equipment to foreign law enforcement organizations in 
counterfeit investigations; of which $2,366,000 shall be for forensic 
and related support of investigations of missing and exploited 
children; of which $6,000,000 shall be for a grant for activities 
related to investigations of missing and exploited children and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2017; and of which not less than 
$12,000,000 shall be for activities related to training in electronic 
crimes investigations and forensics: Provided, That $18,000,000 for 
protective travel shall remain available until September 30, 2017: 
Provided further, That $4,500,000 for National Special Security Events 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
United States Secret Service is authorized to obligate funds in 
anticipation of reimbursements from Federal agencies and entities, as 
defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, for personnel 
receiving training sponsored by the James J. Rowley Training Center, 
except that total obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall not 
exceed total budgetary resources available under this heading at the 
end of the fiscal year: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be available to compensate any 
employee for overtime in an annual amount in excess of $35,000, except 
that the Secretary of Homeland Security, or the designee of the 
Secretary, may waive that amount as necessary for national security 
purposes: Provided further, That none of the funds made available to 
the United States Secret Service by this Act or by previous 
appropriations Acts may be made available for the protection of the 
head of a Federal agency other than the Secretary of Homeland Security: 
Provided further, That the Director of the United States Secret Service 
may enter into an agreement to provide such protection on a fully 
reimbursable basis: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the United States Secret Service by this Act or by 
previous appropriations Acts may be obligated for the purpose of 
opening a new permanent domestic or overseas office or location unless 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives are notified 15 days in advance of such obligation: 
Provided further, That for purposes of section 503(b) of this Act, 
$15,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, may be transferred 
between Protection of Persons and Facilities and Domestic Field 
Operations.

     acquisition, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For necessary expenses for acquisition, construction, repair, 
alteration, and improvement of physical and technological 
infrastructure, $72,819,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2018.

                               TITLE III

            PROTECTION, PREPAREDNESS, RESPONSE, AND RECOVERY

              National Protection and Programs Directorate

                     management and administration

    For necessary expenses for the management and administration of the 
Office of the Under Secretary for the National Protection and Programs 
Directorate, support for operations, and information technology, 
$56,127,000: Provided, That not to exceed $3,825 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses.

           infrastructure protection and information security

    For necessary expenses for infrastructure protection and 
information security programs and activities, as authorized by title II 
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.), 
$1,245,000,000, of which $271,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

                       federal protective service

    The revenues and collections of security fees credited to this 
account shall be available until expended for necessary expenses 
related to the protection of federally owned and leased buildings and 
for the operations of the Federal Protective Service.

                office of biometric identity management

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Biometric Identity 
Management, as authorized by section 7208 of the Intelligence Reform 
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (8 U.S.C. 1365b), $283,473,000: 
Provided, That of the total amount made available under this heading, 
$159,054,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018.

                        Office of Health Affairs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Health Affairs, 
$125,216,000; of which $26,857,000 is for salaries and expenses and 
$82,078,000 is for BioWatch operations: Provided, That of the amount 
made available under this heading, $16,281,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2017, for biosurveillance, chemical defense, 
medical and health planning and coordination, and workforce health 
protection.

                  Federal Emergency Management Agency

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, 
$955,963,000, including activities authorized by the National Flood 
Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), 
the Cerro Grande Fire Assistance Act of 2000 (division C, title I, 114 
Stat. 583), the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 
7701 et seq.), the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 
et seq.), sections 107 and 303 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 404, 405), Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), 
the National Dam Safety Program Act (33 U.S.C. 467 et seq.), the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 et seq.), the Implementing 
Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-53), 
the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2201 et 
seq.), the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006 (Public 
Law 109-295; 120 Stat. 1394), the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform 
Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-141, 126 Stat. 916), and the Homeowner 
Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-89): 
Provided, That not to exceed $2,250 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided further, That of the total amount 
made available under this heading, $35,180,000 shall be for the Urban 
Search and Rescue Response System, of which none is available for 
Federal Emergency Management Agency administrative costs: Provided 
further, That of the total amount made available under this heading, 
$27,500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2017, for 
capital improvements and other expenses related to continuity of 
operations at the Mount Weather Emergency Operations Center.

                        state and local programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
activities, $1,500,000,000, which shall be allocated as follows:
            (1) $467,000,000 shall be for the State Homeland Security 
        Grant Program under section 2004 of the Homeland Security Act 
        of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 605), of which not less than $55,000,000 
        shall be for Operation Stonegarden: Provided, That 
        notwithstanding subsection (c)(4) of such section 2004, for 
        fiscal year 2016, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shall make 
        available to local and tribal governments amounts provided to 
        the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico under this paragraph in 
        accordance with subsection (c)(1) of such section 2004.
            (2) $600,000,000 shall be for the Urban Area Security 
        Initiative under section 2003 of the Homeland Security Act of 
        2002 (6 U.S.C. 604), of which not less than $13,000,000 shall 
        be for organizations (as described under section 501(c)(3) of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under 
        section 501(a) of such code) determined by the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security to be at high risk of a terrorist attack.
            (3) $100,000,000 shall be for Public Transportation 
        Security Assistance, Railroad Security Assistance, and Over-
        the-Road Bus Security Assistance under sections 1406, 1513, and 
        1532 of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission 
        Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-53; 6 U.S.C. 1135, 1163, and 1182), 
        of which not less than $10,000,000 shall be for Amtrak security 
        and $3,000,000 shall be for Over-the-Road Bus Security: 
        Provided, That such public transportation security assistance 
        shall be provided directly to public transportation agencies.
            (4) $100,000,000 shall be for Port Security Grants in 
        accordance with 46 U.S.C. 70107.
            (5) $233,000,000 shall be to sustain current operations for 
        training, exercises, technical assistance, and other programs, 
        of which $162,991,000 shall be for training of State, local, 
        and tribal emergency response providers:
 Provided, That for grants under paragraphs (1) through (4), 
applications for grants shall be made available to eligible applicants 
not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, that 
eligible applicants shall submit applications not later than 80 days 
after the grant announcement, and the Administrator of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency shall act within 65 days after the receipt 
of an application: Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
2008(a)(11) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 609(a)(11)) 
or any other provision of law, a grantee may not use more than 5 
percent of the amount of a grant made available under this heading for 
expenses directly related to administration of the grant: Provided 
further, That for grants under paragraphs (1) and (2), the installation 
of communications towers is not considered construction of a building 
or other physical facility: Provided further, That grantees shall 
provide reports on their use of funds, as determined necessary by the 
Secretary of Homeland Security: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 509 of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency may use the funds provided in paragraph (5) to 
acquire real property for the purpose of establishing or appropriately 
extending the security buffer zones around Federal Emergency Management 
Agency training facilities.

                     firefighter assistance grants

    For grants for programs authorized by the Federal Fire Prevention 
and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.), $680,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017, of which $340,000,000 shall 
be available to carry out section 33 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 2229) and 
$340,000,000 shall be available to carry out section 34 of that Act (15 
U.S.C. 2229a).

                emergency management performance grants

    For emergency management performance grants, as authorized by the 
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 
U.S.C. 7701 et seq.), and Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.), $350,000,000.

              radiological emergency preparedness program

    The aggregate charges assessed during fiscal year 2016, as 
authorized in title III of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and 
Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (42 U.S.C. 5196e), shall not be less than 100 percent of the 
amounts anticipated by the Department of Homeland Security necessary 
for its radiological emergency preparedness program for the next fiscal 
year: Provided, That the methodology for assessment and collection of 
fees shall be fair and equitable and shall reflect costs of providing 
such services, including administrative costs of collecting such fees: 
Provided further, That fees received under this heading shall be 
deposited in this account as offsetting collections and will become 
available for authorized purposes on October 1, 2016, and remain 
available until expended.

                   united states fire administration

    For necessary expenses of the United States Fire Administration and 
for other purposes, as authorized by the Federal Fire Prevention and 
Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.) and the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 et seq.), $44,000,000.

                          disaster relief fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), 
$7,374,693,000 to remain available until expended, of which $24,000,000 
shall be transferred to the Department of Homeland Security Office of 
Inspector General for audits and investigations related to disasters: 
Provided, That the reporting requirements in paragraphs (1) and (2) 
under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency, Disaster 
Relief Fund'' in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations 
Act, 2015 (Public Law 114-4) shall be applied in fiscal year 2016 with 
respect to budget year 2017 and current fiscal year 2016, respectively, 
by substituting ``fiscal year 2017'' for ``fiscal year 2016'' in 
paragraph (1): Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, $6,712,953,000 shall be for major disasters declared pursuant 
to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided further, That the amount in the 
preceding proviso is designated by the Congress as being for disaster 
relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             flood hazard mapping and risk analysis program

    For necessary expenses, including administrative costs, under 
section 1360 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
4101), and under sections 100215, 100216, 100226, 100230, and 100246 of 
the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012, (Public Law 112-
141, 126 Stat. 924), $100,000,000, and such additional sums as may be 
provided by State and local governments or other political subdivisions 
for cost-shared mapping activities under section 1360(f)(2) of such Act 
(42 U.S.C. 4101(f)(2)), to remain available until expended.

                     national flood insurance fund

    For activities under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 
U.S.C. 4001 et seq.), the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 
2012 (Public Law 112-141, 126 Stat. 916), and the Homeowner Flood 
Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-89; 128 Stat. 
1020), $181,198,000, which shall remain available until September 30, 
2017, and shall be derived from offsetting amounts collected under 
section 1308(d) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
4015(d)); of which $25,299,000 shall be available for salaries and 
expenses associated with flood management and flood insurance 
operations and $155,899,000 shall be available for flood plain 
management and flood mapping: Provided, That any additional fees 
collected pursuant to section 1308(d) of the National Flood Insurance 
Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4015(d)) shall be credited as an offsetting 
collection to this account, to be available for flood plain management 
and flood mapping: Provided further, That in fiscal year 2016, no funds 
shall be available from the National Flood Insurance Fund under section 
1310 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4017) in 
excess of:
            (1) $133,252,000 for operating expenses;
            (2) $1,123,000,000 for commissions and taxes of agents;
            (3) such sums as are necessary for interest on Treasury 
        borrowings; and
            (4) $175,000,000, which shall remain available until 
        expended, for flood mitigation actions and for flood mitigation 
        assistance under section 1366 of the National Flood Insurance 
        Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4104c), notwithstanding sections 1366(e) 
        and 1310(a)(7) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 4104c(e), 4017):
 Provided further, That the amounts collected under section 102 of the 
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a) and section 
1366(e) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 shall be deposited 
in the National Flood Insurance Fund to supplement other amounts 
specified as available for section 1366 of the National Flood Insurance 
Act of 1968, notwithstanding section 102(f)(8), section 1366(e), and 
paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 1367(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
4012a(f)(8), 4104c(e), 4104d(b)(1)-(3)): Provided further, That total 
administrative costs shall not exceed 4 percent of the total 
appropriation: Provided further, That $5,000,000 is available to carry 
out section 24 of the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 
2014 (42 U.S.C. 4033).

                  national predisaster mitigation fund

    For the predisaster mitigation grant program under section 203 of 
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5133), $25,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                       emergency food and shelter

    To carry out the emergency food and shelter program pursuant to 
title III of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11331 et seq.), $120,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That total administrative costs shall not exceed 3.5 percent 
of the total amount made available under this heading.

                                TITLE IV

             RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TRAINING, AND SERVICES

           United States Citizenship and Immigration Services

    For necessary expenses for citizenship and immigration services, 
$119,671,000 for the E-Verify Program, as described in section 403(a) 
of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 
1996 (8 U.S.C. 1324a note), to assist United States employers with 
maintaining a legal workforce: Provided, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, funds otherwise made available to United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Services may be used to acquire, operate, 
equip, and dispose of up to 5 vehicles, for replacement only, for areas 
where the Administrator of General Services does not provide vehicles 
for lease:  Provided further, That the Director of United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Services may authorize employees who are 
assigned to those areas to use such vehicles to travel between the 
employees' residences and places of employment: Provided further, That 
of the funds deposited into the ``Immigration Examination Fees 
Account'' established under section 286(m) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)), not to exceed $10,000 may be 
allocated by the Director of United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services in fiscal year 2016 for official reception and representation 
expenses notwithstanding section 286(n) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(n)).

                Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center, including materials and support costs of Federal law 
enforcement basic training; the purchase of not to exceed 117 vehicles 
for police-type use and hire of passenger motor vehicles; expenses for 
student athletic and related activities; the conduct of and 
participation in firearms matches and presentation of awards; public 
awareness and enhancement of community support of law enforcement 
training; room and board for student interns; a flat monthly 
reimbursement to employees authorized to use personal mobile phones for 
official duties; and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code; $211,502,000; of which up to $47,181,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2017, for materials and support 
costs of Federal law enforcement basic training; of which $300,000 
shall remain available until expended to be distributed to Federal law 
enforcement agencies for expenses incurred participating in training 
accreditation; and of which not to exceed $7,180 shall be for official 
reception and representation expenses: Provided, That the Center is 
authorized to obligate funds in anticipation of reimbursements from 
agencies receiving training sponsored by the Center, except that total 
obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total 
budgetary resources available at the end of the fiscal year: Provided 
further, That section 1202(a) of Public Law 107-206 (42 U.S.C. 3771 
note), as amended under this heading in Public Law 114-4, is further 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2018'': Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center shall schedule basic or advanced law 
enforcement training, or both, at all four training facilities under 
the control of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center to ensure 
that such training facilities are operated at the highest capacity 
throughout the fiscal year: Provided further, That the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Accreditation Board, including representatives 
from the Federal law enforcement community and non-Federal 
accreditation experts involved in law enforcement training, shall lead 
the Federal law enforcement training accreditation process to continue 
the implementation of measuring and assessing the quality and 
effectiveness of Federal law enforcement training programs, facilities, 
and instructors.

     acquisitions, construction, improvements, and related expenses

    For acquisition of necessary additional real property and 
facilities, construction, and ongoing maintenance, facility 
improvements, and related expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, $27,553,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2020: Provided, That the Center is authorized to accept reimbursement 
to this appropriation from government agencies requesting the 
construction of special use facilities.

                         Science and Technology

                     management and administration

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Science and Technology and for management and administration of 
programs and activities, as authorized by title III of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), $131,531,000: Provided, 
That not to exceed $7,650 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses.

           research, development, acquisition, and operations

    For necessary expenses for science and technology research, 
including advanced research projects, development, test and evaluation, 
acquisition, and operations as authorized by title III of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), and the purchase or lease 
of not to exceed 5 vehicles, $655,407,000; of which $521,676,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018; and of which $133,731,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2020, solely for operation 
and construction of laboratory facilities.

                   Domestic Nuclear Detection Office

                     management and administration

    For salaries and expenses of the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, 
as authorized by title XIX of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
U.S.C. 591 et seq.), for management and administration of programs and 
activities, $38,109,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,250 shall be 
for official reception and representation expenses.

                 research, development, and operations

    For necessary expenses for radiological and nuclear research, 
development, testing, evaluation, and operations, $196,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018.

                          systems acquisition

    For necessary expenses for the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office 
acquisition and deployment of radiological detection systems in 
accordance with the global nuclear detection architecture, 
$123,011,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including transfers and rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502.  Subject to the requirements of section 503 of this Act, 
the unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided for activities 
in this Act may be transferred to appropriation accounts for such 
activities established pursuant to this Act, may be merged with funds 
in the applicable established accounts, and thereafter may be accounted 
for as one fund for the same time period as originally enacted.
    Sec. 503. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, provided by 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies in or transferred to the 
Department of Homeland Security that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2016, or provided from any accounts in the 
Treasury of the United States derived by the collection of fees 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that:
            (1) creates a new program, project, or activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, office, or activity;
            (3) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
        for which funds have been denied or restricted by the Congress;
            (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
        by either of the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate or 
        the House of Representatives for a different purpose; or
            (5) contracts out any function or activity for which 
        funding levels were requested for Federal full-time equivalents 
        in the object classification tables contained in the fiscal 
        year 2016 Budget Appendix for the Department of Homeland 
        Security, as modified by the report accompanying this Act, 
        unless the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
        House of Representatives are notified 15 days in advance of 
        such reprogramming of funds.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, provided by previous 
appropriations Acts to the agencies in or transferred to the Department 
of Homeland Security that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2016, or provided from any accounts in the 
Treasury of the United States derived by the collection of fees or 
proceeds available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure for programs, projects, or 
activities through a reprogramming of funds in excess of $5,000,000 or 
10 percent, whichever is less, that:
            (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity;
            (3) reduces by 10 percent the numbers of personnel approved 
        by the Congress; or
            (4) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel that would result in a change in existing programs, 
        projects, or activities as approved by the Congress, unless the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives are notified 15 days in advance of such 
        reprogramming of funds.
    (c) Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for 
the current fiscal year for the Department of Homeland Security by this 
Act or provided by previous appropriations Acts may be transferred 
between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as 
otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 
percent by such transfers: Provided, That any transfer under this 
section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under subsection 
(b) and shall not be available for obligation unless the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives are 
notified 15 days in advance of such transfer.
    (d) Notwithstanding subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section, 
no funds shall be reprogrammed within or transferred between 
appropriations based upon an initial notification provided after June 
30, except in extraordinary circumstances that imminently threaten the 
safety of human life or the protection of property.
    (e) The notification thresholds and procedures set forth in this 
section shall apply to any use of deobligated balances of funds 
provided in previous Department of Homeland Security Appropriations 
Acts.
    Sec. 504.  The Department of Homeland Security Working Capital 
Fund, established pursuant to section 403 of Public Law 103-356 (31 
U.S.C. 501 note), shall continue operations as a permanent working 
capital fund for fiscal year 2016: Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Homeland 
Security may be used to make payments to the Working Capital Fund, 
except for the activities and amounts allowed in the President's fiscal 
year 2016 budget: Provided further, That funds provided to the Working 
Capital Fund shall be available for obligation until expended to carry 
out the purposes of the Working Capital Fund: Provided further, That 
all departmental components shall be charged only for direct usage of 
each Working Capital Fund service: Provided further, That funds 
provided to the Working Capital Fund shall be used only for purposes 
consistent with the contributing component: Provided further, That the 
Working Capital Fund shall be paid in advance or reimbursed at rates 
which will return the full cost of each service: Provided further, That 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives shall be notified of any activity added to or removed 
from the fund and the activity's accompanying offset by component: 
Provided further, That the Chief Financial Officer of the Department of 
Homeland Security shall submit a quarterly execution report with 
activity level detail, not later than 30 days after the end of each 
quarter.
    Sec. 505.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2016, as recorded in the financial records at the 
time of a reprogramming request, but not later than June 30, 2017, from 
appropriations for salaries and expenses for fiscal year 2016 in this 
Act shall remain available through September 30, 2017, in the account 
and for the purposes for which the appropriations were provided: 
Provided, That prior to the obligation of such funds, a request shall 
be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives for approval in accordance with section 503 of 
this Act.
    Sec. 506.  Funds made available by this Act for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414) during fiscal year 2016 until the enactment of an Act authorizing 
intelligence activities for fiscal year 2016.
    Sec. 507. (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), none 
of the funds made available by this Act may be used to--
            (1) make or award a grant allocation, grant, contract, 
        other transaction agreement, or task or delivery order on a 
        Department of Homeland Security multiple award contract, or to 
        issue a letter of intent totaling in excess of $1,000,000;
            (2) award a task or delivery order requiring an obligation 
        of funds in an amount greater than $10,000,000 from multi-year 
        Department of Homeland Security funds;
            (3) make a sole-source grant award; or
            (4) announce publicly the intention to make or award items 
        under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) including a contract covered 
        by the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
    (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security may waive the prohibition 
under subsection (a) if the Secretary notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives at least 
3 full business days in advance of making an award or issuing a letter 
as described in that subsection.
    (c) If the Secretary of Homeland Security determines that 
compliance with this section would pose a substantial risk to human 
life, health, or safety, an award may be made without notification, and 
the Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives not later than 5 full business 
days after such an award is made or letter issued.
    (d) A notification under this section--
            (1) may not involve funds that are not available for 
        obligation; and
            (2) shall include the amount of the award; the fiscal year 
        for which the funds for the award were appropriated; the type 
        of contract; and the account from which the funds are being 
        drawn.
    (e) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
shall brief the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives 5 full business days in advance of announcing 
publicly the intention of making an award under ``State and Local 
Programs''.
    Sec. 508.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no agency 
shall purchase, construct, or lease any additional facilities, except 
within or contiguous to existing locations, to be used for the purpose 
of conducting Federal law enforcement training without the advance 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives, except that the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center is authorized to obtain the temporary use of additional 
facilities by lease, contract, or other agreement for training that 
cannot be accommodated in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for expenses for any construction, 
repair, alteration, or acquisition project for which a prospectus 
otherwise required under chapter 33 of title 40, United States Code, 
has not been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for 
each project for required expenses for the development of a proposed 
prospectus.
    Sec. 510. (a) Sections 520, 522, and 530 of the Department of 
Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2008 (division E of Public Law 
110-161; 121 Stat. 2073 and 2074) shall apply with respect to funds 
made available in this Act in the same manner as such sections applied 
to funds made available in that Act.
    (b) The third proviso of section 537 of the Department of Homeland 
Security Appropriations Act, 2006 (6 U.S.C. 114), shall not apply with 
respect to funds made available in this Act.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of the applicable provisions of the Buy American Act. 
For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term ``Buy American Act'' 
means chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to amend the oath of allegiance required by section 337 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1448).
    Sec. 513.  Not later than 30 days after the last day of each month, 
the Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Homeland Security 
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a monthly budget and staffing report for that 
month that includes total obligations of the Department for that month 
for the fiscal year at the appropriation and program, project, and 
activity levels, by the source year of the appropriation. Total 
obligations for staffing shall also be provided by subcategory of on-
board and funded full-time equivalent staffing levels, respectively, 
and the report shall specify the number of, and total obligations for, 
contract employees for each office of the Department.
    Sec. 514.  Except as provided in section 44945 of title 49, United 
States Code, funds appropriated or transferred to Transportation 
Security Administration ``Aviation Security'', ``Administration'', and 
``Transportation Security Support'' for fiscal years 2004 and 2005 that 
are recovered or deobligated shall be available only for the 
procurement or installation of explosives detection systems, air cargo, 
baggage, and checkpoint screening systems, subject to notification: 
Provided, That semiannual reports shall be submitted to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives on any 
funds that are recovered or deobligated.
    Sec. 515.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to process or approve a competition under Office of Management and 
Budget Circular A-76 for services provided by employees (including 
employees serving on a temporary or term basis) of United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Services of the Department of Homeland 
Security who are known as Immigration Information Officers, Contact 
Representatives, Investigative Assistants, or Immigration Services 
Officers.
    Sec. 516.  Any funds appropriated to ``Coast Guard, Acquisition, 
Construction, and Improvements'' for fiscal years 2002, 2003, 2004, 
2005, and 2006 for the 110-123 foot patrol boat conversion that are 
recovered, collected, or otherwise received as the result of 
negotiation, mediation, or litigation, shall be available until 
expended for the Fast Response Cutter program.
    Sec. 517.  The functions of the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center instructor staff shall be classified as inherently governmental 
for the purpose of the Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998 
(31 U.S.C. 501 note).
    Sec. 518. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a 
report not later than October 15, 2016, to the Office of Inspector 
General of the Department of Homeland Security listing all grants and 
contracts awarded by any means other than full and open competition 
during fiscal year 2016.
    (b) The Inspector General shall review the report required by 
subsection (a) to assess Departmental compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations and report the results of that review to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives not 
later than February 15, 2017.
    Sec. 519.  None of the funds provided by this or previous 
appropriations Acts shall be used to fund any position designated as a 
Principal Federal Official (or the successor thereto) for any Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 
et seq.) declared disasters or emergencies unless--
            (1) the responsibilities of the Principal Federal Official 
        do not include operational functions related to incident 
        management, including coordination of operations, and are 
        consistent with the requirements of section 509(c) and sections 
        503(c)(3) and 503(c)(4)(A) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
        (6 U.S.C. 319(c), 313(c)(3), and 313(c)(4)(A)) and section 302 
        of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Assistance Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 5143);
            (2) not later than 10 business days after the latter of the 
        date on which the Secretary of Homeland Security appoints the 
        Principal Federal Official and the date on which the President 
        issues a declaration under section 401 or section 501 of the 
        Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191, respectively), the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security shall submit a notification of the 
        appointment of the Principal Federal Official and a description 
        of the responsibilities of such Official and how such 
        responsibilities are consistent with paragraph (1) to the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and the 
        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
        Senate; and
            (3) not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary shall provide a report specifying 
        timeframes and milestones regarding the update of operations, 
        planning and policy documents, and training and exercise 
        protocols, to ensure consistency with paragraph (1) of this 
        section.
    Sec. 520.  None of the funds provided or otherwise made available 
in this Act shall be available to carry out section 872 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 452) unless explicitly authorized by 
Congress.
    Sec. 521.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services to grant an 
immigration benefit unless the results of background checks required by 
law to be completed prior to the granting of the benefit have been 
received by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, and the 
results do not preclude the granting of the benefit.
    Sec. 522.  Section 831 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
U.S.C. 391) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Until September 30, 
        2015,'' and inserting ``Until September 30, 2016,''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``September 30, 
        2015,'' and inserting ``September 30, 2016,''.
    Sec. 523.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall require that 
all contracts of the Department of Homeland Security that provide award 
fees link such fees to successful acquisition outcomes (which outcomes 
shall be specified in terms of cost, schedule, and performance).
    Sec. 524.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds provided in this or any other Act shall be used to approve a 
waiver of the navigation and vessel-inspection laws pursuant to 46 
U.S.C. 501(b) for the transportation of crude oil distributed from and 
to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve until the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, after consultation with the Secretaries of the Departments of 
Energy and Transportation and representatives from the United States 
flag maritime industry, takes adequate measures to ensure the use of 
United States flag vessels: Provided, That the Secretary shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
of the House of Representatives within 2 business days of any request 
for waivers of navigation and vessel-inspection laws pursuant to 46 
U.S.C. 501(b).
    Sec. 525.  None of the funds made available in this Act for United 
States Customs and Border Protection may be used to prevent an 
individual not in the business of importing a prescription drug (within 
the meaning of section 801(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
Act) from importing a prescription drug from Canada that complies with 
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act: Provided, That this section 
shall apply only to individuals transporting on their person a 
personal-use quantity of the prescription drug, not to exceed a 90-day 
supply: Provided further, That the prescription drug may not be--
            (1) a controlled substance, as defined in section 102 of 
        the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802); or
            (2) a biological product, as defined in section 351 of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262).
    Sec. 526.  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with 
the Secretary of the Treasury, shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives of any 
proposed transfers of funds available under section 9703(g)(4)(B) of 
title 31, United States Code (added by section 638 of Public Law 102-
393), from the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund to any agency 
within the Department of Homeland Security: Provided, That none of the 
funds identified for such a transfer may be obligated until the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives approve the proposed transfers.
    Sec. 527.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for planning, testing, piloting, or developing a national 
identification card.
    Sec. 528.  Any official that is required by this Act to report or 
to certify to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives may not delegate such authority to perform 
that act unless specifically authorized herein.
    Sec. 529.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this or any other Act may be used to transfer, release, or 
assist in the transfer or release to or within the United States, its 
territories, or possessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other 
detainee who--
            (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at the United 
        States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
        of Defense.
    Sec. 530.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for first-class travel by the employees of agencies funded by this Act 
in contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, 
Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 531.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to employ workers described in section 274A(h)(3) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324a(h)(3)).
    Sec. 532.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to pay award or incentive fees for contractor performance that has 
been judged to be below satisfactory performance or performance that 
does not meet the basic requirements of a contract.
    Sec. 533.  In developing any process to screen aviation passengers 
and crews for transportation or national security purposes, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that all such processes 
take into consideration such passengers' and crews' privacy and civil 
liberties consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and guidance.
    Sec. 534. (a) Notwithstanding section 1356(n) of title 8, United 
States Code, of the funds deposited into the Immigration Examinations 
Fee Account, $10,000,000 may be allocated by United States Citizenship 
and Immigration Services in fiscal year 2016 for the purpose of 
providing an immigrant integration grants program.
    (b) None of the funds made available to United States Citizenship 
and Immigration Services for grants for immigrant integration may be 
used to provide services to aliens who have not been lawfully admitted 
for permanent residence.
    Sec. 535.  For an additional amount for the ``Office of the Under 
Secretary for Management'', $43,886,000, to remain available until 
expended, for necessary expenses to plan, acquire, design, construct, 
renovate, remediate, equip, furnish, improve infrastructure, and occupy 
buildings and facilities for the department headquarters consolidation 
project and associated mission support consolidation.
    Sec. 536.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used by the Department of Homeland 
Security to enter into any Federal contract unless such contract is 
entered into in accordance with the requirements of subtitle I of title 
41, United States Code, or chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, 
and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless such contract is 
otherwise authorized by statute to be entered into without regard to 
the above referenced statutes.
    Sec. 537. (a) For an additional amount for financial systems 
modernization, $52,977,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2017.
    (b) Funds made available in subsection (a) for financial systems 
modernization may be transferred by the Secretary of Homeland Security 
between appropriations for the same purpose, notwithstanding section 
503 of this Act.
    (c) No transfer described in subsection (b) shall occur until 15 
days after the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives are notified of such transfer.
    Sec. 538.  Notwithstanding the 10 percent limitation contained in 
section 503(c) of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security may 
transfer to the fund established by 8 U.S.C. 1101 note, up to 
$20,000,000 from appropriations available to the Department of Homeland 
Security: Provided, That the Secretary shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives 5 days in 
advance of such transfer.
    Sec. 539.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the 
Secretary of Homeland Security determines that specific United States 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Service Processing Centers or other 
United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement owned detention 
facilities no longer meet the mission need, the Secretary is authorized 
to dispose of individual Service Processing Centers or other United 
States Immigration and Customs Enforcement owned detention facilities 
by directing the Administrator of General Services to sell all real and 
related personal property which support Service Processing Centers or 
other United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement owned detention 
facilities, subject to such terms and conditions as necessary to 
protect Government interests and meet program requirements: Provided, 
That the proceeds, net of the costs of sale incurred by the General 
Services Administration and United States Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement, shall be deposited as offsetting collections into a 
separate account that shall be available, subject to appropriation, 
until expended for other real property capital asset needs of existing 
United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement assets, excluding 
daily operations and maintenance costs, as the Secretary deems 
appropriate: Provided further, That any sale or collocation of 
federally owned detention facilities shall not result in the 
maintenance of fewer than 34,000 detention beds: Provided further, That 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives shall be notified 15 days prior to the announcement of 
any proposed sale or collocation.
    Sec. 540.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure 
enforcement of all immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17))).
    Sec. 541. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 542.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by a Federal law enforcement officer to facilitate the transfer of an 
operable firearm to an individual if the Federal law enforcement 
officer knows or suspects that the individual is an agent of a drug 
cartel unless law enforcement personnel of the United States 
continuously monitor or control the firearm at all times.
    Sec. 543.  None of the funds provided in this or any other Act may 
be obligated to implement the National Preparedness Grant Program or 
any other successor grant programs unless explicitly authorized by 
Congress.
    Sec. 544.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide funding for the position of Public Advocate, or a successor 
position, within United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
    Sec. 545.  Section 559(e)(3)(D) of division F of Public Law 113-76 
(6 U.S.C. 211 note) is amended by striking ``five'' and inserting 
``ten''.
    Sec. 546.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay for the travel to or attendance of more than 50 employees of a 
single component of the Department of Homeland Security, who are 
stationed in the United States, at a single international conference 
unless the Secretary of Homeland Security, or a designee, determines 
that such attendance is in the national interest and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives within at least 10 days of that determination and the 
basis for that determination: Provided, That for purposes of this 
section the term ``international conference'' shall mean a conference 
occurring outside of the United States attended by representatives of 
the United States Government and of foreign governments, international 
organizations, or nongovernmental organizations.
    Sec. 547.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to reimburse any Federal department or agency for its participation in 
a National Special Security Event.
    Sec. 548.  With the exception of countries with preclearance 
facilities in service prior to 2014, none of the funds made available 
in this Act may be used for new United States Customs and Border 
Protection air preclearance agreements entering into force after 
February 1, 2015, unless--
            (1) the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of State, has certified to Congress that air 
        preclearance operations at the airport provide a homeland or 
        national security benefit to the United States;
            (2) United States passenger air carriers are not precluded 
        from operating at existing preclearance locations; and
            (3) a United States passenger air carrier is operating at 
        all airports contemplated for establishment of new air 
        preclearance operations.
    Sec. 549.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used by the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration to implement, administer, or enforce, in abrogation of 
the responsibility described in section 44903(n)(1) of title 49, United 
States Code, any requirement that airport operators provide airport-
financed staffing to monitor exit points from the sterile area of any 
airport at which the Transportation Security Administration provided 
such monitoring as of December 1, 2013.
    Sec. 550.  The administrative law judge annuitants participating in 
the Senior Administrative Law Judge Program managed by the Director of 
the Office of Personnel Management under section 3323 of title 5, 
United States Code, shall be available on a temporary reemployment 
basis to conduct arbitrations of disputes arising from delivery of 
assistance under the Federal Emergency Management Agency Public 
Assistance Program.
    Sec. 551.  As authorized by section 601(b) of the United States-
Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (Public Law 112-
42), not to exceed $180,000,000 in fees collected from passengers 
arriving from Canada, Mexico, or an adjacent island pursuant to section 
13031(a)(5) of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(a)(5)) shall be available until expended.
    Sec. 552.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Homeland Security by this or any other Act may be obligated for any 
structural pay reform that affects more than 100 full-time equivalent 
employee positions or costs more than $5,000,000 in a single year 
before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which the 
Secretary of Homeland Security submits to Congress a notification that 
includes--
            (1) the number of full-time equivalent employee positions 
        affected by such change;
            (2) funding required for such change for the current year 
        and through the Future Years Homeland Security Program;
            (3) justification for such change; and
            (4) an analysis of compensation alternatives to such change 
        that were considered by the Department.
    Sec. 553. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this Act 
shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public Web site 
of that agency any report required to be submitted by the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in this 
Act, upon the determination by the head of the agency that it shall 
serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises homeland 
        or national security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days except as otherwise 
specified in law.
    Sec. 554.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, grants 
awarded to States along the Southwest Border of the United States under 
sections 2003 or 2004 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
604 and 605) using funds provided under the heading ``Federal Emergency 
Management Agency, State and Local Programs'' in this Act, Public Law 
114-4, division F of Public Law 113-76, or division D of Public Law 
113-6 may be used by recipients or sub-recipients for costs, or 
reimbursement of costs, related to providing humanitarian relief to 
unaccompanied alien children and alien adults accompanied by an alien 
minor where they are encountered after entering the United States, 
provided that such costs were incurred between January 1, 2014, and 
December 31, 2014, or during the award period of performance.
    Sec. 555. (a) Notwithstanding any limitation or requirement in 
section 503 of this Act with respect to the reprogramming and transfer 
of funds, amounts made available by this Act for the Transportation 
Security Administration may be reprogrammed within ``Aviation 
Security'' or transferred from ``Transportation Security Support'' for 
obligations associated with private screening contract awards made by 
the Screening Partnership Program.
    (b) The Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives shall be notified of any reprogramming or transfer 
under subsection (a) within 10 days after such action.
    Sec. 556.  Each major acquisition program of the Department of 
Homeland Security, as defined in Department of Homeland Security 
Management Directive 102-2, shall meet established acquisition 
documentation requirements for its acquisition program baseline 
established in the Department of Homeland Security Instruction Manual 
102-01-001 and the Department of Homeland Security Acquisition 
Instruction/Guidebook 102-01-001, Appendix K.
    Sec. 557.  None of the funds made available by this Act or any 
other Act for any fiscal year may be used for any of the following 
major acquisition programs, until it meets the documentation 
requirements established in the Department of Homeland Security 
Instruction Manual 102-01-001 and the Department of Homeland Security 
Acquisition Instruction/Guidebook 102-01-001, Appendix K, for its 
acquisition program baseline:
            (1) U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Land Border 
        Integration program.
            (2) U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Non-Intrusive 
        Inspection Systems program.
            (3) U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Strategic Air and 
        Marine Program.
            (4) U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Tactical 
        Communications Modernization program.
            (5) Federal Emergency Management Agency's Logistics Supply 
        Chain Management System.
            (6) Coast Guard's Medium Range Surveillance Aircraft 
        program.
    Sec. 558. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall include, in 
the President's budget proposal for fiscal year 2017, submitted 
pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, and 
accompanying justification materials, an account structure under which 
the following categories of appropriation are included under each 
agency heading in accounts of the same name:
            (1) Operations and Support.
            (2) Procurements, Construction, and Improvements.
            (3) Research and Development.
            (4) Federal Assistance.
    (b) The Under Secretary for Management, acting through the Chief 
Financial Officer, shall determine, and provide centralized guidance to 
each agency on, how to structure appropriations for purposes of 
subsection (a).
    (c) In fiscal year 2017, the accounts designed under subsection (a) 
shall be created, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
structure appropriations of the Department as provided pursuant to such 
subsection, including any continuing appropriations made available for 
such fiscal year before enactment of a regular appropriation Act.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security may transfer any appropriation made available to the 
Department of Homeland Security by previous appropriation Acts to the 
accounts created pursuant to subsection (c) to carry out the 
requirements of such subsection.
    (e)(1) Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of the 
regular or full-year continuing appropriation Act or resolution for the 
Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall establish the baseline for application of 
reprogramming and transfer authorities and submit the report specified 
in paragraph (2) to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives.
            (2) The report required in this subsection shall include--
                    (A) a delineation of the amount and account of each 
                transfer made pursuant to subsection (c) or (d);
                    (B) a table for each appropriation with a separate 
                column to display the President's budget request, 
                adjustments made by Congress, adjustments due to 
                enacted rescissions, if appropriate, adjustments made 
                pursuant to the transfer authority in subsection (c) or 
                (d), and the fiscal year enacted level;
                    (C) a delineation in the table for each 
                appropriation, adjusted as described in paragraph (2), 
                both by budget activity and program, project, and 
                activity as detailed in the Budget Appendix; and
                    (D) an identification of items of special 
                congressional interest.
    Sec. 559. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to approve, license, facilitate, authorize, or otherwise allow the 
trafficking or import of property confiscated by the Cuban Government.
    (b) In this section, the terms ``confiscated'', ``Cuban 
Government'', ``property'', and ``traffic'' have the meanings give such 
terms in paragraphs (4), (5), (12)(A), and (13), respectively, of 
section 4 of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act 
of 1996 (2216 U.S.C. 6023).
    Sec. 560.  No funds, resources, or fees made available to the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, or to any other official of a Federal 
agency, by this Act or any other Act for any fiscal year, including any 
deposits into the ``Immigration Examinations Fee Account'' established 
under section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1356(m)), may be obligated to expand the existing Deferred Action for 
Childhood Arrivals or newly proposed Deferred Action for Parents of 
Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents as outlined in memoranda 
signed November 20, 2014, by the Secretary of the Department of 
Homeland Security while the preliminary injunctive order of the 
district court for the Southern District of Texas entered February 16, 
2015, in the matter of Texas v. United States, Civ. No. B-14-254, 2015 
WL 648579 (S.D. Tex. Feb. 16, 2015), remains in effect.
    Sec. 561.  Section 214(g)(9)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)(9)(A)) is amended by striking ``2004, 2005, or 
2006 shall not again be counted toward such limitation during fiscal 
year 2007.'' and inserting ``2013, 2014, or 2015 shall not again be 
counted toward such limitation during fiscal year 2016.''.
    Sec. 562.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to fund the creation or continued use of metal badges resembling law 
enforcement badges by Transportation Security Administration personnel, 
unless such person has received Federal law enforcement training, or is 
eligible for Federal law enforcement benefits.
    Sec. 563.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall be available to pay for an 
abortion, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if 
the fetus were carried to term, or in the case of rape or incest: 
Provided, That should this prohibition be declared unconstitutional by 
a court of competent jurisdiction, this section shall be null and void.
    Sec. 564.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement shall be used to require any person 
to perform, or facilitate in any way the performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 565.  Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to provide escort services 
necessary for a female detainee to receive such service outside the 
detention facility: Provided, That nothing in this section in any way 
diminishes the effect of section 564 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of U.S. Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement.
    Sec. 566.  No funds or fees made available to the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, or to the head of any other Federal agency, by this 
Act or any other Act may be used to release from custody, other than 
for removal from the United States, any alien described in the Priority 
1 or Priority 2 category in the memorandum from the Secretary of 
Homeland Security entitled ``Policies for the Apprehension, Detention 
and Removal of Undocumented Immigrants'' dated November 20, 2014.
    Sec. 567. (a) In this section, the term ``sanctuary city'' means a 
State or a political subdivision of a State that has in place a 
statute, policy, or practice that prohibits law enforcement officers of 
the State, or of the political subdivision, from assisting or 
cooperating with Federal immigration law enforcement in the course of 
carrying out the officers' routine law enforcement duties.
    (b)(1) A sanctuary city shall not be eligible to receive, for a 
minimum period of at lease 1 year, any Department of Homeland Security 
grant funded under the heading ``Federal Emergency Management Agency, 
State and Local Programs''.
    (2) A jurisdiction that is found to be a sanctuary city shall only 
become eligible to receive funds or grants under paragraph (b)(1) after 
the Secretary of Homeland Security certifies that the jurisdiction is 
no longer a sanctuary city.
    (c)(1) Not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall determine which States or political 
subdivisions of a State are sanctuary cities and shall report to 
Congress such determinations.
    (2) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall issue a report 
concerning the compliance of any particular State or political 
subdivision of a State at the request of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, 
or the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.
    (d) Any funds that are not allocated to a sanctuary city, due to 
the jurisdiction's designation as a sanctuary city, shall be 
reallocated to the States and political subdivisions of States that are 
not sanctuary cities.
    (e) Nothing in this section may be construed to require law 
enforcement officials from a State or political subdivision of a State 
to report or arrest victims or witnesses of a criminal offense.
    (f) This section shall take effect on the date of enactment of this 
Act.

                             (rescissions)

    Sec. 568.  Of the funds appropriated to the Department of Homeland 
Security, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the following 
accounts and programs in the specified amounts: Provided, That no 
amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177):
            (1) $27,338,000 from Public Law 109-88;
            (2) $66,600,000 from ``U.S. Custom and Border Protection, 
        Border Security Fencing, Infrastructure, and Technology'' 
        account 70x0553;
            (3) $31,950,000 from Public Law 114-4 under the heading 
        ``U.S. Custom and Border Protection, Border Security Fencing, 
        Infrastructure, and Technology'';
            (4) $30,000,000 from Public Law 114-4 under the heading 
        ``Transportation Security Administration, Aviation Security'';
            (5) $22,000,000 from Public Law 114-4 under the heading 
        ``Transportation Security Administration, Surface 
        Transportation Security'';
            (6) $8,000,000 from Public Law 114-4 under the heading 
        ``Transportation Security Administration, Intelligence and 
        Vetting'';
            (7) $26,000,000 from Public Law 114-4 under the heading 
        ``Transportation Security Administration, Transportation 
        Security Support'';
            (8) $4,741,699 from Public Law 113-6 under the heading 
        ``Coast Guard, Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements'';
            (9) $12,542,022 from Public Law 113-76 under the heading 
        ``Coast Guard, Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements'';
            (10) $2,305,000 from Public Law 114-4 under the heading 
        ``Coast Guard, Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements'';
            (11) $9,100,000 from Public Law 114-4 under the heading 
        ``United States Secret Service, Acquisition, Construction, 
        Improvements, and Related Expenses'';
            (12) $393,178 from Public Law 113-6 under the heading 
        ``Science and Technology, Research, Development, Acquisition, 
        and Operations'';
            (13) $8,500,000 from Public Law 113-76 under the heading 
        ``Science and Technology, Research, Development, Acquisition, 
        and Operations''; and
            (14) $1,106,822 from Public Law 114-4 under the heading 
        ``Science and Technology, Research, Development, Acquisition, 
        and Operations''.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 569.  From the unobligated balances made available in the 
Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund established by section 9703 
of title 31, United States Code (added by section 638 of Public Law 
102-393), $176,000,000 shall be rescinded.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 570.  Of the unobligated balances made available to ``Federal 
Emergency Management Agency, Disaster Relief Fund'', $1,265,864,000 
shall be rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from 
amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended: 
Provided further, That no amounts may be rescinded from the amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as being for disaster relief 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 571.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is $0.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Homeland Security 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 162

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 3128

                          [Report No. 114-215]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 21, 2015

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
