[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6524 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6524

 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to establish a nonregulatory 
  program to support restoration and protection efforts in the Hudson-
           Mohawk River Basin region, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 8, 2016

  Mr. Tonko introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
  Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
  Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to establish a nonregulatory 
  program to support restoration and protection efforts in the Hudson-
           Mohawk River Basin region, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Hudson-Mohawk River Basin Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Hudson-Mohawk River Basin together with the Erie 
        Canal connects the Great Lakes to the Atlantic Ocean and 
        includes the approximately 13,400 square mile area encompassing 
        the following five large sub-basins:
                    (A) The Upper Hudson River sub-basin.
                    (B) The Mohawk River sub-basin.
                    (C) The Lower Hudson River sub-basin.
                    (D) The Passaic River sub-basin.
                    (E) The Raritan River sub-basin.
            (2) The Hudson-Mohawk River Basin includes the New York-New 
        Jersey metropolitan area, which is the largest metropolitan 
        area of the country. This metropolitan area, together with the 
        many communities in the Upper Hudson, Mohawk, and Lower Hudson 
        sub-basins, makes the area one of the most densely and heavily 
        populated river basins in the country, with over 15,000,000 
        people.
            (3) The water resources of the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin 
        are functionally interrelated and their uses are 
        interdependent. A dedicated program is essential to provide 
        effective communication, coordination, and cooperation among 
        Federal, State, and local governments, nongovernmental 
        organizations, and the private sector.
            (4) The New York-New Jersey Harbor Estuary is a complex 
        natural harbor at the junction of three major water bodies, the 
        New York Bight, the Hudson River, and the Long Island Sound. In 
        addition, it receives freshwater inputs from the Raritan and 
        Passaic Rivers. The health and productivity of the New York 
        Bight are affected directly by the quality of the freshwater 
        inputs to the estuary from the Hudson, Passaic, and Raritan 
        Rivers.
            (5) The Mohawk River and its watershed drain directly into 
        the Hudson River, providing the largest freshwater input to the 
        brackish water mix that characterizes the Hudson River Estuary 
        and supports a biologically rich and productive ecosystem.
            (6) The Mohawk River is integrated with the Erie Canal 
        along much of its channel, tying the operation of the canal 
        system to the health of the Mohawk and Hudson Rivers.
            (7) Individuals in many communities throughout the Hudson-
        Mohawk River Basin have experienced devastating flooding that 
        has led to tremendous costs for homeowners, businesses, and 
        State and local governments. A holistic approach to river and 
        stream monitoring, updated floodplain maps, and development of 
        floodplain management strategies based upon improved 
        understanding of the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin's hydrology 
        would make communities safer and more resilient to flood 
        events.
            (8) Climate change is occurring and, as a result, sea level 
        rise along the United States eastern coastline will increase 
        the vulnerability of coastal communities to storm surge and 
        flooding in the New York-New Jersey harbors and along the major 
        rivers in the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin.
            (9) Each of the subwatersheds of the Hudson-Mohawk River 
        Basin receives the support of programs administered by Federal, 
        State, regional, and local organizations.
            (10) New York, New Jersey, Vermont, Massachusetts, and 
        Connecticut have a long history of achievements working 
        together on resource management issues through their 
        memberships in the Delaware River Basin Commission, the 
        Susquehanna River Basin Commission, the Appalachian Regional 
        Commission, the New England Interstate Water Pollution Control 
        Commission, and the Lake Champlain Basin Program.
            (11) The impacts experienced as a result of recent 
        hurricanes and storms illustrate the need for integrated, 
        basin-wide planning to address water management challenges and 
        vulnerability to flooding.
            (12) Protecting wetlands, expanding use of green 
        infrastructure, strengthening dams and levees, and upgrading 
        wastewater and water treatment infrastructure will be necessary 
        to reduce the impacts of extreme weather events and maintain 
        water quality and public health.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Basin state.--The term ``Basin State'' means each of 
        the States of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts, 
        and Vermont.
            (2) Grant program.--The term ``grant program'' means the 
        Hudson-Mohawk River Basin grant program established under 
        section 5.
            (3) Hudson-mohawk river basin.--The term ``Hudson-Mohawk 
        River Basin'' means the area of drainage of the Hudson, Mohawk, 
        Passaic, and Raritan Rivers and their tributaries into the New 
        York-New Jersey Harbor Estuary.
            (4) Restoration and protection.--The term ``restoration and 
        protection'' means the conservation, stewardship, and 
        enhancement of habitat for fish and wildlife to preserve and 
        improve ecosystems and ecological processes on which they 
        depend, and for use and enjoyment by the public.
            (5) Restoration program.--The term ``restoration program'' 
        means the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin restoration program 
        established under section 4.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (7) Water resources.--The term ``water resources'' means 
        all surface waters and ground waters contained or otherwise 
        originating within the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin.

SEC. 4. RESTORATION PROGRAM ESTABLISHMENT.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a nonregulatory 
program to be known as the ``Hudson-Mohawk River Basin Restoration 
Program''.
    (b) Duties.--In carrying out the restoration program, the Secretary 
shall--
            (1) draw on existing and new management plans for the 
        Hudson-Mohawk River Basin, or portions of the Basin, and work 
        in consultation with applicable management entities, including 
        representatives of the Federal Government, State and local 
        governments, and regional and nonprofit organizations, as 
        appropriate, to identify, prioritize, and implement water 
        resources activities within the Basin;
            (2) adopt a Basin-wide strategy that--
                    (A) coordinates activities being undertaken by the 
                Basin States, advisory committees, local governments, 
                institutions of higher education, and nongovernmental 
                organizations to address environmental, economic, and 
                cultural issues associated with the management and use 
                of water resources in the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin; 
                and
                    (B) supports the implementation of a shared set of 
                science-based restoration and protection activities 
                developed in accordance with paragraph (1); and
            (3) establish the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin grant program 
        in accordance with section 5.
    (c) Coordination.--In establishing the restoration program, the 
Secretary shall consult, as appropriate, with--
            (1) the heads of Federal agencies, including--
                    (A) the Administrator of the Environmental 
                Protection Agency;
                    (B) the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
                Atmospheric Administration;
                    (C) the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation 
                Service;
                    (D) the Chief of Engineers of the Corps of 
                Engineers; and
                    (E) the head of any other applicable agency;
            (2) the Governors of the Basin States;
            (3) other public agencies and organizations with authority 
        for the planning and implementation of conservation strategies 
        in the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin;
            (4) institutions of higher education and nongovernmental 
        organizations; and
            (5) other parties as determined by the Secretary.
    (d) Purposes.--The purposes of the restoration program include--
            (1) addressing the management, development, conservation, 
        and use of water resources throughout the Hudson-Mohawk River 
        Basin;
            (2) coordinating restoration and protection activities 
        among Federal, State, local, and regional entities and 
        conservation partners throughout the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin;
            (3) carrying out coordinated restoration and protection 
        activities and providing for technical assistance throughout 
        the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin and Basin States--
                    (A) to sustain and enhance fish and wildlife 
                habitat restoration and protection activities;
                    (B) to improve and maintain water quality to 
                support fish and wildlife, as well as the habitats of 
                fish and wildlife, and drinking water;
                    (C) to sustain and enhance water management for 
                volume and flood damage mitigation improvements to 
                benefit fish and wildlife habitat;
                    (D) to improve opportunities for public access and 
                recreation in the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin consistent 
                with the ecological needs of fish and wildlife habitat;
                    (E) to facilitate strategic planning to maximize 
                the resilience of natural systems and habitats under 
                changing watershed conditions;
                    (F) to engage the public through outreach, 
                education, and citizen involvement; and
                    (G) to increase scientific capacity to support the 
                planning, monitoring, and research activities necessary 
                to carry out coordinated restoration and protection 
                activities;
            (4) maintaining an inventory of historic and cultural 
        resources of the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin and identifying 
        projects to provide for cultural enrichment, preservation of 
        cultural resources, public education about local heritage and 
        historical significance of properties, canals, and historic 
        sites within the Hudson-Mohawk River Basin; and
            (5) providing a mechanism to promote communication and 
        coordination among the organizations engaged in water resource 
        management activities to promote collaborative working 
        relationships among all entities working in the Hudson-Mohawk 
        River Basin.

SEC. 5. GRANTS AND ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Hudson-Mohawk River Basin Grant Program.--To the extent that 
funds are available to carry out this section, the Secretary shall 
establish a voluntary grant program to be known as the ``Hudson-Mohawk 
River Basin Grant Program'' to provide--
            (1) competitive matching grants of varying amounts to State 
        and local governments, nonprofit organizations, institutions of 
        higher education, and other eligible entities to carry out 
        activities described in section 4(d); and
            (2) technical assistance to grant recipients.
    (b) Criteria.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
organizations described in section 4(c), shall develop criteria for the 
grant program to help ensure that activities funded under this section 
accomplish one or more of the purposes identified in section 4(d) and 
advance the implementation of priority actions or needs identified in 
the Basin-wide strategy adopted under section 4(b)(2).
    (c) Cost Sharing.--
            (1) Federal share.--The Federal share of the cost of a 
        project funded under the grant program shall be determined by 
        the Secretary and shall not exceed 80 percent of the total cost 
        of the activity.
            (2) Non-federal share.--The non-Federal share of the cost 
        of a project funded under the grant program may be provided in 
        cash or in the form of an in-kind contribution of services or 
        materials.

SEC. 6. ANNUAL REPORTS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act 
and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
report on the implementation of this Act, including a description of 
each project that has received funding under this Act.

SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary to carry out this Act $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2017 through 2023.
    (b) Use.--Of any amount made available under this section for each 
fiscal year, the Secretary shall use at least 75 percent to carry out 
the grant program and to provide, or provide for, technical assistance 
under such program.
                                 <all>
