[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.J. Res. 62 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 62

 To authorize the use of the Armed Forces of the United States against 
    Iran if Iran commits a serious violation of its commitments or 
obligations under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 29, 2015

 Mr. Larson of Connecticut introduced the following joint resolution; 
         which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
 To authorize the use of the Armed Forces of the United States against 
    Iran if Iran commits a serious violation of its commitments or 
obligations under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the President should be commended for the unwavering 
        commitment to ensure that Iran never acquires a nuclear weapon 
        and the willingness to explore a peaceful path to ensure Iran 
        remains free of nuclear weapons;
            (2) the President and the administration should be 
        commended for exhausting diplomatic means in working with the 
        P5+1 countries to reach the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
        agreement with Iran that will ensure Iran's civilian nuclear 
        program finally becomes compliant with the International Atomic 
        Energy Agency under unprecedented new regulations and highly 
        intrusive international inspection without jeopardizing the 
        capability of the United States and United States allies to 
        intervene militarily if such option becomes necessary; and
            (3) if, at any time, the President determines that Iran's 
        nuclear program becomes noncompliant under the Joint 
        Comprehensive Plan of Action agreement and poses a threat to 
        the national security of the United States, then the President 
        should work with Congress to utilize appropriate measures, not 
        limited to military intervention, to eliminate such threat.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES TO 
              DISMANTLE IRANIAN NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) In General.--The President is authorized to use the Armed 
Forces of the United States against Iran to dismantle Iran's nuclear 
infrastructure if the President--
            (1) certifies to Congress that inspectors of the 
        International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) have determined that 
        Iran has failed to comply with its commitments or obligations 
        under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action and the President 
        determines that such failure on behalf of Iran is serious in 
        nature and a threat to the national security of the United 
        States;
            (2) certifies to Congress that the provisions of the 
        relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions relating 
        to the application of sanctions against Iran have been re-
        imposed under the terms and conditions of Article 37 of the 
        Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action as a result of such failure 
        of Iran to comply with its commitments or obligations under the 
        Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action; and
            (3) provides to Congress a scope and strategy for the use 
        of the Armed Forces under the authority of this section.
    (b) War Powers Resolution Requirements.--
            (1) Specific statutory authorization.--Consistent with 
        section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, the Congress 
        declares that this section is intended to constitute specific 
        statutory authorization within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
        the War Powers Resolution.
            (2) Applicability of other requirements.--Nothing in this 
        joint resolution supersedes any requirement of the War Powers 
        Resolution.

SEC. 3. REPORTS AND CONSULTATION WITH CONGRESS.

    (a) Reports.--The President shall, at least once every 60 days 
after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution, submit to 
Congress a report on matters relevant to this joint resolution, 
including actions taken pursuant to the exercise of authority provided 
under section 2(a), including the use of lethal force and civilian 
casualties, as well as plans for the redeployment of the Armed Forces 
after actions taken pursuant to this joint resolution are completed.
    (b) Consultation With Congress.--The President shall regularly 
consult with the congressional committees of jurisdiction on actions 
taken pursuant to the exercise of authority provided under section 
2(a).

SEC. 4. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this joint resolution shall be construed to interfere or 
violate the President's inherent right to authorize limited military 
force in self-defense pursuant to the United States Constitution and 
the War Powers Resolution.

SEC. 5. JOINT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF ACTION DEFINED.

    In this joint resolution, the term ``Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
Action'' means the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, signed at Vienna 
July 14, 2015, by Iran and by the People's Republic of China, France, 
Germany, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United 
States, with the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign 
Affairs and Security Policy, and all implementing materials and 
agreements related to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.

SEC. 6. SUNSET.

    The authority granted in section 2(a) shall terminate on the date 
that is 1 year after the date on which the requirements of paragraphs 
(1), (2), and (3) of such section 2(a) have been met.
                                 <all>
