[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5312 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5312

   To amend the High-Performance Computing Act of 1991 to authorize 
    activities for support of networking and information technology 
                   research, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 24, 2016

Mr. LaHood (for himself, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Smith 
 of Texas, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Lucas, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Moolenaar, and 
 Mr. Abraham) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
              Committee on Science, Space, and Technology

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the High-Performance Computing Act of 1991 to authorize 
    activities for support of networking and information technology 
                   research, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Networking and Information 
Technology Research and Development Modernization Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. PURPOSES.

    Section 3 of the High-Performance Computing Act of 1991 (15 U.S.C. 
5502) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``high-performance computing'' and inserting ``networking and 
        information technology'';
            (2) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``expanding Federal support for research, 
                development, and application of high-performance 
                computing'' and inserting ``supporting Federal 
                research, development, and application of networking 
                and information technology'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``high-
                performance computing'' both places it appears and 
                inserting ``networking and information technology'';
                    (C) by striking subparagraphs (C) and (D);
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the 
                following:
                    ``(C) stimulate research on and promote more rapid 
                development of high-end computing systems software and 
                applications software;'';
                    (E) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) through (H) 
                as subparagraphs (D) through (G), respectively;
                    (F) in subparagraph (D), as so redesignated, by 
                inserting ``high-end'' after ``the development of'';
                    (G) in subparagraphs (E) and (F), as so 
                redesignated, by striking ``high-performance 
                computing'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``networking and information technology''; and
                    (H) in subparagraph (G), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``high-performance'' and inserting ``high-
                end''; and
            (3) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``high-performance computing and'' 
                and inserting ``networking and information technology 
                and''; and
                    (B) by striking ``high-performance computing 
                network'' and inserting ``networking and information 
                technology''.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 4 of the High-Performance Computing Act of 1991 (15 U.S.C. 
5503) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraphs (3) and (5);
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), (4), (6), and (7) 
        as paragraphs (2), (3), (5), (7), and (8), respectively;
            (3) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, 
        the following new paragraph:
            ``(1) `cyber-physical systems' means physical or engineered 
        systems whose networking and information technology functions 
        and physical elements are deeply integrated and are actively 
        connected to the physical world through sensors, actuators, or 
        other means to perform monitoring and control functions;'';
            (4) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``high-performance computing'' and inserting ``networking and 
        information technology'';
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (3), as so redesignated, 
        the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) `high-end computing' means the most advanced and 
        capable computing systems, including their hardware, storage, 
        networking and software, encompassing both massive 
        computational capability and large-scale data analytics;'';
            (6) by inserting after paragraph (5), as so redesignated, 
        the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) `networking and information technology' means high-
        end computing, communications, and information technologies, 
        high-capacity and high-speed networks, special purpose and 
        experimental systems, high-end computing systems software and 
        applications software, and the management of large data 
        sets;''; and
            (7) in paragraph (7), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``National High-Performance Computing Program'' and inserting 
        ``Networking and Information Technology Research and 
        Development Program''.

SEC. 4. TITLE I HEADING.

    The heading of title I of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5511 et seq.) is 
amended by striking ``HIGH-PERFORMANCE COMPUTING'' and inserting 
``NETWORKING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY''.

SEC. 5. NETWORKING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 101 of the High-Performance Computing Act of 1991 (15 
U.S.C. 5511) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``national high-
        performance computing program'' and inserting ``networking and 
        information technology research and development program'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``National High-Performance Computing Program'' and 
                inserting ``Networking and Information Technology 
                Research and Development'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``National High-Performance 
                        Computing Program'' and inserting ``Networking 
                        and Information Technology Research and 
                        Development Program'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``high-performance computing, including 
                        networking'' and inserting ``networking and 
                        information technology'';
                            (iii) in subparagraphs (B) and (G), by 
                        striking ``high-performance'' each place it 
                        appears and inserting ``high-end'';
                            (iv) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                        ``high-performance computing and networking'' 
                        and inserting ``high-end computing, 
                        distributed, and networking'';
                            (v) by amending subparagraph (D) to read as 
                        follows:
            ``(D) provide for efforts to increase software security and 
        reliability;'';
                            (vi) in subparagraph (H)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``support and 
                                guidance'' after ``provide''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``and'' after the 
                                semicolon;
                            (vii) in subparagraph (I)--
                                    (I) by striking ``improving the 
                                security'' and inserting ``improving 
                                the security, reliability, and 
                                resilience''; and
                                    (II) by striking the period at the 
                                end and inserting a semicolon; and
                            (viii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraphs:
            ``(J) provide for increased understanding of the scientific 
        principles of cyber-physical systems and improve the methods 
        available for the design, development, and operation of cyber-
        physical systems that are characterized by high reliability, 
        safety, and security;
            ``(K) provide for research and development on human-
        computer interactions, visualization, and big data;
            ``(L) provide for research and development on the 
        enhancement of cybersecurity; and
            ``(M) provide for a research framework to leverage cyber-
        physical systems, high capacity and high speed communication 
        networks, and large-scale data analytics to integrate city-
        scale information technology and physical infrastructures.'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as 
                        follows:
            ``(A) establish the goals and priorities for Federal 
        networking and information technology research, development, 
        education, and other activities;'';
                            (ii) by amending subparagraph (C) to read 
                        as follows:
            ``(C) provide for interagency coordination of Federal 
        networking and information technology research, development, 
        education, and other activities undertaken pursuant to the 
        Program;'';
                            (iii) by amending subparagraph (E) to read 
                        as follows:
            ``(E) encourage and monitor the efforts of the agencies 
        participating in the Program to allocate the level of resources 
        and management attention necessary to ensure that the strategic 
        plan under subsection (e) is developed and executed effectively 
        and that the objectives of the Program are met; and''; and
                            (iv) in subparagraph (F), by striking 
                        ``high-performance'' and inserting ``high-
                        end'';
                    (D) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), 
                        (C), (D), and (E) as subparagraphs (E), (F), 
                        (G), and (J), respectively;
                            (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(B) provide, as appropriate, a list of the senior 
        steering groups and strategic plans that are planned or 
        underway as addressed under section 104;
            ``(C) provide a description of workshops and other 
        activities conducted under section 104, including participants 
        and findings;
            ``(D) provide a detailed description of the nature and 
        scope of research infrastructure designated as such under the 
        Program;'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (E), as so 
                        redesignated--
                                    (I) by redesignating clauses (vii) 
                                through (xi) as clauses (viii) through 
                                (xii), respectively; and
                                    (II) by inserting after clause (vi) 
                                the following:
                    ``(vii) the Department of Homeland Security;'';
                            (iv) in subparagraph (F), as so 
                        redesignated--
                                    (I) by striking ``is submitted,'' 
                                and inserting ``is submitted, the 
                                levels for the previous fiscal year,''; 
                                and
                                    (II) by striking ``each Program 
                                Component Area;'' and inserting ``each 
                                Program Component Area and research 
                                area supported in accordance with 
                                section 103;'';
                            (v) by amending subparagraph (G), as so 
                        redesignated, to read as follows:
            ``(G) describe the levels of Federal funding for each 
        agency and department participating in the Program, and for 
        each Program Component Area, for the fiscal year during which 
        such report is submitted, the levels for the previous fiscal 
        year, and the levels proposed for the fiscal year with respect 
        to which the budget submission applies;''; and
                            (vi) by inserting after subparagraph (G), 
                        as so redesignated, the following:
            ``(H) include a description of how the objectives for each 
        Program Component Area, and the objectives for activities that 
        involve multiple Program Component Areas, relate to the 
        objectives of the Program identified in the strategic plan 
        required under subsection (e);
            ``(I) include--
                    ``(i) a description of the funding required by the 
                National Coordination Office to perform the functions 
                specified under section 102(b) for the current fiscal 
                year;
                    ``(ii) a description of the estimated funding 
                required by such Office to perform the functions 
                specified under section 102(b) for the next fiscal 
                year; and
                    ``(iii) the amount of funding provided for such 
                Office for the current fiscal year by each agency 
                participating in the Program; and'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``high-performance 
                        computing'' both places it appears and 
                        inserting ``networking and information 
                        technology''; and
                            (ii) after the first sentence, by inserting 
                        the following: ``Each chair of the advisory 
                        committee shall meet the qualifications of 
                        committee membership and may be a member of the 
                        President's Council of Advisors on Science and 
                        Technology.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1)(D), by striking ``high-
                performance computing, networking technology, and 
                related software'' and inserting ``networking and 
                information technology''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``2'' and inserting ``3'';
                            (ii) by striking ``Committee on Science and 
                        Technology'' and inserting ``Committee on 
                        Science, Space, and Technology''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``The first report shall 
                        be due within 1 year after the date of 
                        enactment of the America COMPETES Act.'';
            (4) in subsection (c)(1)(A), by striking ``high-performance 
        computing'' and inserting ``networking and information 
        technology''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(d) Periodic Reviews.--The agencies identified in subsection 
(a)(3)(B) shall--
            ``(1) periodically assess and update, as appropriate, the 
        contents, scope, and funding levels of the Program Component 
        Areas and work through the National Science and Technology 
        Council and with the assistance of the National Coordination 
        Office described under section 102 to restructure the Program 
        when warranted, taking into consideration any relevant 
        recommendations of the advisory committee established under 
        subsection (b); and
            ``(2) working through the National Science and Technology 
        Council and with the assistance of the National Coordination 
        Office described under section 102, ensure that the Program 
        includes large-scale, long-term, interdisciplinary research and 
        development activities, including activities described in 
        section 103.
    ``(e) Strategic Plan.--
            ``(1) In general.--The agencies identified in subsection 
        (a)(3)(B), working through the National Science and Technology 
        Council and with the assistance of the National Coordination 
        Office described under section 102, shall develop, within 12 
        months after the date of enactment of the Networking and 
        Information Technology Research and Development Modernization 
        Act of 2016, and update every five years thereafter, a five-
        year strategic plan for the Program.
            ``(2) Contents.--The strategic plan shall specify near-term 
        and long-term cross-cutting objectives for the Program, the 
        anticipated time frame for achieving the near-term objectives, 
        the metrics to be used for assessing progress toward the 
        objectives, and how the Program will--
                    ``(A) address long-term challenges of national 
                importance for which solutions require large-scale, 
                long-term, interdisciplinary research and development;
                    ``(B) encourage and support mechanisms for 
                interdisciplinary research and development in 
                networking and information technology and for Grand 
                Challenges, including through collaborations across 
                agencies, across Program Component Areas, with 
                industry, with Federal laboratories (as defined in 
                section 4 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation 
                Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3703)), and with international 
                organizations;
                    ``(C) foster the transfer of research and 
                development results into new technologies and 
                applications in the national interest, including 
                through cooperation and collaborations with networking 
                and information technology research, development, and 
                technology transition initiatives supported by the 
                States;
                    ``(D) provide for cyberinfrastructure needs, as 
                appropriate, across federally funded large-scale 
                research facilities that produce or will produce large 
                amounts of data that will need to be stored, curated, 
                and made publicly available;
                    ``(E) strengthen all levels of networking and 
                information technology education and training programs 
                to ensure an adequate, well-trained workforce; and
                    ``(F) attract individuals identified in sections 33 
                and 34 of the Science and Engineering Equal 
                Opportunities Act (42 U.S.C. 1885a and 1885b) to 
                networking and information technology fields.
            ``(3) Recommendations.--The entities involved in developing 
        the strategic plan under paragraph (1) shall take into 
        consideration the recommendations--
                    ``(A) of the advisory committee established under 
                subsection (b);
                    ``(B) of the Committee on Science and relevant 
                subcommittees of the National Science and Technology 
                Council; and
                    ``(C) of the stakeholders whose input was solicited 
                by the National Coordination Office, as required under 
                section 102(b)(3).
            ``(4) Report to congress.--The Director of the National 
        Coordination Office shall transmit the strategic plan required 
        under paragraph (1) to the advisory committee, the Committee on 
        Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, 
        and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
        the Senate.''.

SEC. 6. NATIONAL COORDINATION OFFICE.

    Section 102 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5512) is amended to read as 
follows:

``SEC. 102. NATIONAL COORDINATION OFFICE.

    ``(a) Office.--The Director shall maintain a National Coordination 
Office with a Director and full-time staff.
    ``(b) Functions.--The National Coordination Office shall--
            ``(1) provide technical and administrative support to--
                    ``(A) the agencies participating in planning and 
                implementing the Program, including such support as 
                needed in the development of the strategic plan under 
                section 101(e); and
                    ``(B) the advisory committee established under 
                section 101(b), as appropriate;
            ``(2) serve as the primary point of contact on Federal 
        networking and information technology activities for government 
        organizations, academia, industry, professional societies, 
        State computing and networking technology programs, interested 
        citizen groups, and others to exchange technical and 
        programmatic information;
            ``(3) solicit input and recommendations from a wide range 
        of stakeholders during the development of each strategic plan 
        required under section 101(e) and the scope of the Program 
        Component Areas through the convening of at least one workshop 
        with invitees from academia, industry, Federal laboratories, 
        and other relevant organizations and institutions;
            ``(4) conduct and increase outreach, including to academia, 
        industry, other relevant organizations and institutions, and 
        the public, in order to increase awareness of the Program and 
        the benefits of the Program and to increase potential 
        opportunities for collaboration between agencies participating 
        in the Program and the private sector; and
            ``(5) promote access to and early application of the 
        technologies, innovations, and expertise derived from Program 
        activities to agency missions and systems across the Federal 
        Government and to United States industry.
    ``(c) Source of Funding.--
            ``(1) In general.--The operation of the National 
        Coordination Office shall be supported by funds from each 
        agency participating in the Program.
            ``(2) Specifications.--The portion of the total budget of 
        such Office that is provided by each agency for each fiscal 
        year shall be in the same proportion as each such agency's 
        share of the total budget for the Program for the previous 
        fiscal year, as specified in the report required under section 
        101(a)(3).
            ``(3) Waiver.--As appropriate, the Director may consider 
        and approve a reduction or waiver of an agency contribution 
        requirement under paragraph (2).''.

SEC. 7. NEXT GENERATION INTERNET.

    Section 103 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5513) is repealed.

SEC. 8. GRAND CHALLENGES IN AREAS OF NATIONAL IMPORTANCE.

    Title I of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5511 et seq.) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 103. GRAND CHALLENGES IN AREAS OF NATIONAL IMPORTANCE.

    ``(a) In General.--The Program shall encourage agencies identified 
in section 101(a)(3)(E) to support large-scale, long-term, 
interdisciplinary research and development activities in networking and 
information technology directed toward agency mission areas that have 
the potential for significant contributions to national economic 
competitiveness and for other significant societal benefits. Such 
activities, ranging from basic research to the demonstration of 
technical solutions, shall be designed to advance the development of 
fundamental discoveries. The advisory committee established under 
section 101(b) shall make recommendations to the Program for candidate 
research and development areas for support under this section.
    ``(b) Characteristics.--
            ``(1) In general.--Research and development activities 
        under this section shall--
                    ``(A) include projects selected on the basis of 
                applications for support through a competitive, merit-
                based process;
                    ``(B) involve collaborations among researchers in 
                institutions of higher education and industry, and may 
                involve nonprofit research institutions and Federal 
                laboratories, as appropriate;
                    ``(C) leverage Federal investments through 
                collaboration with related State and private sector 
                initiatives; and
                    ``(D) include a plan for fostering the transfer of 
                research discoveries and the results of technology 
                demonstration activities, including from institutions 
                of higher education and Federal laboratories, to 
                industry for commercial development.
            ``(2) Cost-sharing.--In selecting applications for support, 
        the agencies may give special consideration to projects that 
        include cost sharing from non-Federal sources.
            ``(3) Agency collaboration.--If two or more agencies 
        identified in section 101(a)(3)(E), or other appropriate 
        agencies, are working on large-scale networking and information 
        technology research and development activities in the same area 
        of national importance, then such agencies shall strive to 
        collaborate through joint solicitation and selection of 
        applications for support and subsequent funding of projects.
            ``(4) Interdisciplinary research centers.--Research and 
        development activities under this section may be supported 
        through interdisciplinary research centers that are organized 
        to investigate basic research questions and carry out 
        technology demonstration activities in areas described in 
        subsection (a). Research may be carried out through existing 
        interdisciplinary centers.''.

SEC. 9. WORKSHOPS AND SENIOR STEERING GROUPS.

    Title I of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5511 et seq.) is amended further by 
adding after section 103, as added by section 8 of this Act, the 
following new section:

``SEC. 104. ADDRESSING EMERGING ISSUES.

    ``(a) In General.--In order to address emerging issues, the 
Director of the National Coordination Office may conduct workshops and 
other activities on research areas of emerging importance, which may 
include the grand challenge areas identified under section 103, with 
participants from institutions of higher education, Federal 
laboratories, and industry, in order to help guide Program investments 
and strategic planning in those areas, including areas identified in 
subsection (b).
    ``(b) Focus Areas.--In selecting research areas under subsection 
(a), the Director of the National Coordination Office shall consider 
the following topics:
            ``(1) Data analytics to identify the current and future 
        state of performing inference, prediction, and other forms of 
        analysis of data, and methods for the collection, management, 
        preservation, and use of data.
            ``(2) The current and future state of the science, 
        engineering, policy, and social understanding of privacy 
        protection.
            ``(3) The current and future state of fundamental research 
        on the systems and science of the interplay of people and 
        computing as well as the coordination and support being 
        undertaken in areas such as social computing, human-robot 
        interaction, privacy, and health-related aspects in human-
        computer systems.
    ``(c) Functions.--The participants in the workshops shall, as 
appropriate--
            ``(1) develop options for models for research and 
        development partnerships among institutions of higher 
        education, Federal laboratories, and industry, including 
        mechanisms for the support of research and development carried 
        out under these partnerships;
            ``(2) develop options for research and development for the 
        specific issue areas that would be addressed through such 
        partnerships;
            ``(3) propose guidelines for assigning intellectual 
        property rights and for the transfer of research results to the 
        private sector; and
            ``(4) make recommendations for how Federal agencies 
        participating in the Program can help support research and 
        development partnerships for the specific issue areas.
    ``(d) Participants.--The Director of the National Coordination 
Office shall ensure that the participants in the workshops--
            ``(1) are individuals with knowledge and expertise in the 
        specific issue areas; and
            ``(2) represent a broad mix of relevant stakeholders, 
        including academic and industry researchers and, as 
        appropriate, Federal agencies.
    ``(e) Senior Steering Groups and Strategic Plans.--As appropriate, 
the Director of the National Coordination Office shall establish senior 
steering groups and develop focused strategic plans to coordinate and 
guide activities under the research areas identified under this 
section, taking into consideration the findings and recommendations 
from any workshops carried out on those research topics.''.

SEC. 10. NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION ACTIVITIES.

    Section 201 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5521) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by inserting ``high-end'' after 
                        ``National Science Foundation shall provide''; 
                        and
                            (ii) by striking ``high-performance 
                        computing'' and all that follows through 
                        ``networking;'' and inserting ``networking and 
                        information technology; and'';
                    (B) by striking paragraphs (2) through (4); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(2) the National Science Foundation shall use its 
        existing programs, in collaboration with other agencies, as 
        appropriate, to improve the teaching and learning of networking 
        and information technology at all levels of education and to 
        increase participation in networking and information technology 
        fields, including by individuals identified in sections 33 and 
        34 of the Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1885a and 1885b).''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b).

SEC. 11. NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION ACTIVITIES.

    Section 202 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5522) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b);
            (2) by striking ``(a) General Responsibilities.--''; and
            (3) by striking ``high-performance computing'' and 
        inserting ``networking and information technology''.

SEC. 12. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY ACTIVITIES.

    Section 203 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5523) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b);
            (2) by striking ``(a) General Responsibilities.--'';
            (3) in paragraph (1), by striking ``high-performance 
        computing and networking'' and inserting ``networking and 
        information technology''; and
            (4) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``high-performance'' 
        and inserting ``high-end''.

SEC. 13. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE ACTIVITIES.

    Section 204 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5524) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``high-
                performance computing systems and networks'' and 
                inserting ``networking and information technology 
                systems and capabilities'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                ``interoperability of high-performance computing 
                systems in networks and for common user interfaces to 
                systems'' and inserting ``interoperability and 
                usability of networking and information technology 
                systems''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``high-
                performance computing'' and inserting ``networking and 
                information technology'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``High-Performance 
                Computing and Network'' and inserting ``Networking and 
                Information Technology'';
                    (B) by striking ``Pursuant to the Computer Security 
                Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-235; 101 Stat. 1724), the'' 
                and inserting ``The''; and
                    (C) by striking ``sensitive''; and
            (3) by striking subsections (c) and (d).

SEC. 14. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY ACTIVITIES.

    Section 205 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5525) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b);
            (2) by striking ``(a) General Responsibilities.--'';
            (3) by striking ``basic and applied'';
            (4) by striking ``computational'' and inserting 
        ``networking and information technology''; and
            (5) by inserting ``All software and code, along with any 
        subsequent updates to the software and code, developed by the 
        Environmental Protection Agency under the Program and used in 
        conducting scientific research shall be made publically 
        available. In cases where the underlying software or code is 
        proprietary or contains confidential business information, the 
        Agency shall disclose only the name and vendor of the software 
        and code used for all proprietary or confidential business 
        information portions of the software or code. The Environmental 
        Protection Agency shall ensure that the research conducted 
        under the Program does not duplicate the scope or aims of 
        similar research and initiatives at other Federal agencies. No 
        Environmental Protection Agency funds shall be used towards 
        research that duplicates the scope or aims of similar research 
        and initiatives at other Federal agencies.'' after ``dynamics 
        models.''.

SEC. 15. ROLE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION.

    Section 206 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5526) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b);
            (2) by striking ``(a) General Responsibilities.--''; and
            (3) by striking ``to conduct basic'' and all that follows 
        through ``software capabilities'' and inserting ``to support 
        programs and activities to improve the teaching and learning of 
        networking and information technology fields and contribute to 
        the development of a skilled networking and information 
        technology workforce''.

SEC. 16. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

    Section 207(b) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5527(b)) is amended by 
striking ``high-performance computing'' and inserting ``networking and 
information technology''.

SEC. 17. REPEAL.

    Section 208 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 5528) is repealed.

SEC. 18. ADDITIONAL REPEAL.

    Section 4 of the Department of Energy High-End Computing 
Revitalization Act of 2004 (15 U.S.C. 5543) is repealed.
                                 <all>
