[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2145 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2145

       To make supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2016.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 6, 2015

  (for himself and Mr. Leahy) introduced the following bill; which was 
              referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
       To make supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2016.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for fiscal year 2016, and for other purposes, namely:

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', 
$1,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, for necessary 
expenses to respond to the refugee crisis resulting from conflict in 
the Middle East, including costs associated with the resettlement of 
refugees in the United States:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, except that such amount shall be available only if the 
President subsequently so designates such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                         Reporting Requirement

    Sec. 101.  Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act and 
prior to the obligation of funds made available by this Act, the 
Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads of other relevant 
United States Government agencies, shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees describing the estimated total 
number of refugees who have fled violence and instability in Syria and 
Iraq and who are in need of assistance or are seeking resettlement; the 
impacts of such refugees on regional neighbors and European countries, 
and the efforts of those countries to resettle such refugees; the costs 
associated with resettling such refugees in the United States; and the 
proposed uses of funds appropriated by this Act:  Provided, That such 
report shall also contain any additional costs (including personnel 
costs) to respond to the refugee crisis and a description and 
assessment of the security vetting processes used for the resettlement 
of such refugees in the United States:  Provided further, That the 
report required by this section shall be updated every 90 days until 
September 30, 2017.

                               Definition

    Sec. 102.  The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' as 
used in this Act shall be as defined in section 7034(t)(1) of division 
J of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act (Public 
Law 113-235), and shall also include the Committees on the Judiciary of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives.

                           Transfer of Funds

    Sec. 103.  The Secretary of State may transfer funds appropriated 
by this Act to other relevant federal agencies for the purpose of 
assisting in the resettlement in the United States of refugees fleeing 
conflict in the Middle East:  Provided, That any such transfer shall be 
subject to prior consultation with, and the regular notification 
procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, 
That upon a determination by the Secretary, in consultation with the 
head of any federal agency receiving funds transferred pursuant to the 
authority of this section, that any portion of such transferred funds 
are no longer necessary to meet the purposes of such transfer, such 
funds shall be returned to the Secretary.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Middle East Refugee Emergency 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2016.''
                                 <all>
