[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4940 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4940

    To direct the Director of National Intelligence to establish an 
integration cell to monitor and enforce the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
                    Action, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 14, 2016

  Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York introduced the following bill; 
 which was referred to the Select Committee on Intelligence (Permanent 
                                Select)

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To direct the Director of National Intelligence to establish an 
integration cell to monitor and enforce the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
                    Action, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``JCPOA Intelligence Enforcement Act 
of 2016''.

SEC. 2. JCPOA MONITORING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
establish an integration cell among relevant elements of the United 
States intelligence community to integrate intelligence related to 
monitoring and enforcement of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``JCPOA''). The integration cell 
established under this subsection shall be known as the ``IC Iran 
Integration Cell'' (hereinafter referred to as ``the Integration 
Cell'').
    (b) Primary Functions.--The primary functions of the Integration 
Cell are--
            (1) to coordinate and synchronize all collection related to 
        implementation of the JCPOA;
            (2) to integrate the early warning systems of intelligence 
        agencies with respect to potential violations of the JCPOA; and
            (3) to identify intelligence gaps related to monitoring of 
        the JCPOA.
    (c) Leadership.--
            (1) In general.--The Integration Cell shall be headed by a 
        member of the Senior Intelligence Service, who shall report to 
        the Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) Staffing.--The cell may be staffed through detailees, 
        assignees, or core contractor personnel who would otherwise 
        conduct such work as part of their normal responsibilities.
    (d) Reports.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director of 
National Intelligence shall submit to Congress a report on the 
Integration Cell that includes each of the following:
            (1) A detailed description of the activities of the 
        Integration Cell.
            (2) An assessment of the awareness of the Integration Cell 
        of Iran's compliance with the JCPOA.
            (3) Recommendations for better collection regarding Iran's 
        compliance.

SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING ESTABLISHMENT OF JOINT INTELLIGENCE 
              FUSION CELL.

    It is the sense of Congress that the intelligence community should 
establish a joint fusion cell with members of the Gulf Cooperation 
Council to--
            (1) combat Iran's malevolent regional activities, including 
        Iran's support for terrorist proxy entities, such as Hezbollah;
            (2) find and disrupt illicit transfers of weapons and 
        material, in violation of United Nations Security Council 
        Resolution 2231; and
            (3) protect the territorial integrity of key partner 
        nations.

SEC. 4. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING JOINT UNITED STATES-ISRAEL 
              INTELLIGENCE COOPERATION.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Director of National Intelligence should establish 
        a United States-Israel intelligence working group focused 
        specifically on the Iranian threat; and
            (2) such working group should meet on a regular basis to 
        enhance intelligence sharing on threats, including--
                    (A) Iranian support for Hezbollah and other 
                terrorist actors;
                    (B) Iranian illicit smuggling of conventional 
                weapons;
                    (C) monitoring and collection of intelligence on 
                Iran's ballistic missile and space programs, including 
                its pursuit of satellite programs; and
                    (D) monitoring and collection of intelligence on 
                Iran's nuclear activities.
                                 <all>
