[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6095 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6095

   To authorize the Secretary of Education to carry out a program to 
 increase access to prekindergarten through grade 12 computer science 
                               education.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 21, 2016

     Ms. Lee (for herself, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
 Butterfield, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Polis, Ms. DelBene, Mr. 
  Hinojosa, Ms. Titus, Ms. Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Honda, Ms. Clark of 
Massachusetts, and Ms. Fudge) introduced the following bill; which was 
        referred to the Committee on Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To authorize the Secretary of Education to carry out a program to 
 increase access to prekindergarten through grade 12 computer science 
                               education.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Computer Science for All Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that:
            (1) Computer science is transforming industry, creating new 
        fields of commerce, driving innovation, and bolstering 
        productivity.
            (2) There are more than 550,000 technology jobs unfilled in 
        the United States as of May of 2016. It is projected that there 
        will be 1,400,000 new jobs in the technology sector by 2020; 
        however, 70 percent of those jobs will be unfulfilled at the 
        rate American universities are producing qualified graduates.
            (3) Knowledge of computer science and use of technology is 
        increasingly essential for all individuals, not just those 
        working or planning to work in the technology sector.
            (4) Providing students with computer science education in 
        elementary school and secondary school is critical for student 
        success, and strengthening the workforce of a 21st century 
        economy.
            (5) While an estimated 90 percent of parents want computer 
        science taught in their children's schools, just 25 percent of 
        all elementary schools and secondary schools offer high-quality 
        computer science instruction that includes programming and 
        coding.
            (6) African-Americans, Latinos, Native Americans, and 
        Pacific Islanders are disproportionately underrepresented in 
        the technology sector. For example, African-Americans and 
        Latinos make up 27 percent of the United States workforce, but 
        make up only 13.8 percent of the science and engineering 
        workforce, and only 11 percent of computer science 
        professionals.
            (7) While underrepresented minority students overall face 
        an opportunity gap in STEAM education, women of color 
        particularly face an achievement gap in science and engineering 
        education. In 2012, while women received 48.8 percent of all 
        bachelor's degrees in science and engineering majors, women of 
        color received only 15.7 percent (Black: 5.3 percent; Latino: 
        5.5 percent; Native American or Alaska Native: 0.3 percent, and 
        Asian or Pacific Islander: 4.6 percent).
            (8) Women overall face challenges in accessing computer 
        science education. Only 18 percent of all bachelor's degrees 
        awarded in computer science in 2012 went to women, and women of 
        color received only 6.6 percent (Black: 3.0 percent; Latino: 
        1.7 percent; Native American or Alaska Native: 0.1 percent, and 
        Asian or Pacific Islander: 1.8 percent).
            (9) Disparities in enrollment and academic achievement 
        start early. In 2015, only 22 percent of students taking the AP 
        Computer Science exam were women, and just 13 percent were 
        African-American or Latino.
            (10) Nationwide, only 184 Native American students took the 
        AP Computer Science exam in 2015. This means that while Native 
        Americans make up about 1.1 percent of the U.S. student 
        population, they made up less than half a percent of students 
        who took AP Computer Science exams in 2015.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Computational thinking.--The term ``computational 
        thinking'' aims to capture the wide range of creative processes 
        that go into formulating problems and their solutions in such a 
        way that the solutions can be carried out by a computer, and 
        may involve some understanding of software and hardware design, 
        logic and the use of abstraction and representation, algorithm 
        design, algorithm expression, problem decomposition, 
        modularity, programming paradigms and languages, issues of 
        information security and privacy, the application of 
        computation across a wide range of disciplines, and the 
        societal impact of computing. Programming is a hands-on, 
        inquiry-based way in which computational thinking may be 
        learned.
            (2) Computer science education.--The term ``computer 
        science education'' includes any of the following: 
        computational thinking; software design; hardware architecture 
        and organization; theoretical foundations; use of abstraction 
        and representation in problem solving; logic; algorithm design 
        and implementation; the limits of computation; programming 
        paradigms and languages; parallel and distributed computing; 
        information security and privacy; computing systems and 
        networks; graphics and visualization; databases and information 
        retrieval; the relationship between computing and mathematics; 
        artificial intelligence; applications of computing across a 
        broad range of disciplines and problems; and the social impacts 
        and professional practices of computing.
            (3) Eligible tribal school.--The term ``eligible Tribal 
        school'' means--
                    (A) a school operated by the Bureau of Indian 
                Education;
                    (B) a school operated pursuant to the Indian Self-
                Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
                450 et seq.); or
                    (C) a tribally controlled school (as defined in 
                section 5212 of the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 
                1988 (25 U.S.C. 2511)).
            (4) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1002).
            (5) Local educational agency.--The term ``local educational 
        agency'' has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        8101).
            (6) Poverty line.--The term ``poverty line'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and 
        Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 8101).
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Education.
            (8) Steam.--The term ``STEAM'' means the subjects of 
        science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics, 
        including computer science.

SEC. 4. GRANTS TO STATES, LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES, AND ELIGIBLE 
              TRIBAL SCHOOLS.

    (a) Grants to States, Local Educational Agencies, and Eligible 
Tribal Schools.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall award grants to 
        States, local educational agencies, and eligible Tribal 
        schools--
                    (A) that demonstrate an ability to carry out an 
                ambitious computer science education expansion effort 
                for all students served by the State, agency, or 
                school, including traditionally underrepresented 
                students; and
                    (B) to serve as models for national replication of 
                computer science education expansion efforts.
            (2) Consortia and partnerships.--A State, local educational 
        agency, or eligible Tribal school may apply for a grant under 
        this section as part of a consortium or in partnership with a 
        State educational agency or other partner.
            (3) Duration.--Grants awarded under this section shall be 
        for a period of not more than 5 years.
    (b) Application Requirements.--A State, local educational agency, 
or eligible Tribal school that desires a grant under this section shall 
submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, 
and containing such information as the Secretary may require, 
including, at a minimum, plans for the following:
            (1) Every high school student served by the State, local 
        educational agency, or eligible Tribal school to have access to 
        computer science education not later than 5 years after receipt 
        of grant funds.
            (2) All students served by the State, local educational 
        agency, or eligible Tribal school to have access to a 
        progression of computer science education from prekindergarten 
        through middle school that prepares students for high school 
        computer science education.
            (3) Expansion of overall access to rigorous STEAM classes, 
        utilizing computer science as a catalyst for increased interest 
        in STEAM more broadly, and reducing the enrollment and academic 
        achievement gap for underrepresented groups such as minorities, 
        girls, and youth from families living at, or below, the poverty 
        line.
            (4) Continuous monitoring and evaluation of project 
        activities.
            (5) Effectively sustaining project activities after the 
        grant period ends, and the length of time which the applicant 
        plans to sustain the project activities.
    (c) Use of Grant Funds.--
            (1) Required activities.--A State, local educational 
        agency, or eligible Tribal school that receives a grant under 
        this section shall use the grant funds for the following 
        activities:
                    (A) Training teachers to teach computer science.
                    (B) Expanding access to high-quality learning 
                materials and online learning options.
                    (C) Creating plans for expanding overall access to 
                rigorous STEAM classes, utilizing computer science as a 
                catalyst for increased interest in STEAM more broadly, 
                and reducing course equity gaps for all students, 
                including underrepresented groups such as minorities, 
                girls, and youth from low-income families.
                    (D) Ensuring additional support and resources, 
                which may include mentoring for students traditionally 
                underrepresented in STEAM fields.
            (2) Permissible activities.--A State, local educational 
        agency, or eligible Tribal school that receives a grant under 
        this section may use the grant funds for the following 
        activities:
                    (A) Building effective regional collaborations with 
                industry, nonprofit organizations, 2-year and 4-year 
                degree granting institutions of higher education 
                (including community colleges, Historically Black 
                Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-serving 
                institutions, Asian American and Native American 
                Pacific Islander-serving institutions, American Indian 
                Tribally controlled colleges and universities, Alaska 
                Native and Native Hawaiian-serving institutions, 
                Predominantly Black Institutions, Native American-
                serving, Nontribal institutions, and other minority-
                serving institutions), and out-of-school providers.
                    (B) Recruiting and hiring instructional personnel 
                as needed, including curriculum specialists.
                    (C) Preparations for effectively sustaining project 
                activities after the grant period ends.
                    (D) Disseminating information about effective 
                practices.
            (3) Limitation.--Not more than 15 percent of a grant may be 
        used to purchase equipment.
    (d) National Activities.--The Secretary may reserve not more than 
2.5 percent of funds available for grants under this section for 
national activities, including technical assistance, evaluation, and 
dissemination.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $250,000,000.

SEC. 5. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Grantee Reports.--Each State, local educational agency, and 
eligible Tribal school that receives a grant under this Act shall 
submit to the Secretary a report, not less than twice a year during the 
grant period, on the use of grant funds that shall include data on the 
numbers of students served through activities funded under this Act, 
disaggregated by race (for Asian and Native Hawaiian or Pacific 
Islander students using the same race response categories as the 
decennial census of the population), ethnicity, gender, and eligibility 
to receive a free or reduced price lunch under the Richard B. Russell 
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.).
    (b) Report by the Secretary.--Not later than 5 years after the 
first grant is awarded under this Act, the Secretary shall submit to 
Congress a report based on the analysis of reports received under 
subsection (a) with a recommendation on how to expand the program under 
this Act.
                                 <all>
