[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1847 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 151
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1847

                      [Report No. 114-202, Part I]

To amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Commodity Exchange 
     Act to repeal the indemnification requirements for regulatory 
 authorities to obtain access to swap data required to be provided by 
                    swaps entities under such Acts.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 16, 2015

 Mr. Crawford (for himself, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
  Huizenga of Michigan, and Ms. Moore) introduced the following bill; 
which was referred to the Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to 
 the Committee on Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

                             July 14, 2015

  Reported from the Committee on Financial Services with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

                             July 14, 2015

The Committee on Agriculture discharged; committed to the Committee of 
  the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
 [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on April 
                               16, 2015]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Commodity Exchange 
     Act to repeal the indemnification requirements for regulatory 
 authorities to obtain access to swap data required to be provided by 
                    swaps entities under such Acts.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Swap Data Repository and 
Clearinghouse Indemnification Correction Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. REPEAL OF INDEMNIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Derivatives Clearing Organizations.--Section 5b(k)(5) of the 
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1(k)(5)) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(5) Confidentiality agreement.--Before the Commission may 
        share information with any entity described in paragraph (4), 
        the Commission shall receive a written agreement from each 
        entity stating that the entity shall abide by the 
        confidentiality requirements described in section 8 relating to 
        the information on swap transactions that is provided.''.
    (b) Swap Data Repositories.--Section 21(d) of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 24a(d)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Confidentiality Agreement.--Before the swap data repository 
may share information with any entity described in subsection (c)(7), 
the swap data repository shall receive a written agreement from each 
entity stating that the entity shall abide by the confidentiality 
requirements described in section 8 relating to the information on swap 
transactions that is provided.''.
    (c) Security-Based Swap Data Repositories.--Section 13(n)(5)(H) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(n)(5)(H)) is amended 
to read as follows:
                    ``(H) Confidentiality agreement.--Before the 
                security-based swap data repository may share 
                information with any entity described in subparagraph 
                (G), the security-based swap data repository shall 
                receive a written agreement from each entity stating 
                that the entity shall abide by the confidentiality 
                requirements described in section 24 relating to the 
                information on security-based swap transactions that is 
                provided.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this Act shall take 
effect as if enacted as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-203) on July 21, 2010.

SEC. 3. SECURITY-BASED SWAP DATA REPOSITORIES.

    Section 13(n)(5)(G) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
U.S.C. 78m(n)(5)(G)) is amended by striking ``all'' and inserting 
``security-based swap''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 151

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1847

                      [Report No. 114-202, Part I]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Commodity Exchange 
     Act to repeal the indemnification requirements for regulatory 
 authorities to obtain access to swap data required to be provided by 
                    swaps entities under such Acts.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 14, 2015

  Reported from the Committee on Financial Services with an amendment

                             July 14, 2015

The Committee on Agriculture discharged; committed to the Committee of 
  the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
