[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3534 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3534

To reduce the national debt and eliminate waste in Government spending, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 17, 2015

Mr. Guinta (for himself and Ms. Sinema) introduced the following bill; 
which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
     and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To reduce the national debt and eliminate waste in Government spending, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Audit U.S. Departments to Insulate 
Taxpayers Act of 2015'' or the ``AUDIT Act''.

SEC. 2. GAO REPORT REQUIRED.

    (a) GAO Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Comptroller General 
shall submit to Congress the report required by section 21 of title II 
of Public Law 111-139 (124 Stat. 29; 31 U.S.C. 712 Note), including a 
legislative proposal that implements the recommendations.
    (b) Introduction of Legislative Recommendations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
        which the report is submitted under subsection (a), a 
        legislative proposal based on the report shall be introduced in 
        the Senate by the chair or ranking minority member of the 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee of the 
        Senate and shall be introduced in the House of Representatives 
        by the chair or ranking minority member of the Oversight and 
        Government Reform Committee of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Not in session.--If either House is not in session on 
        the day on which such legislative proposal is submitted, the 
        legislative proposal shall be introduced in that House, as 
        provided in paragraph (1), on the first day thereafter on which 
        that House is in session.
            (3) Introduction by member.--If the legislative proposal is 
        not introduced in either House within 5 days on which that 
        House is in session after the day on which the legislative 
        proposal is submitted, then any Member of that House may 
        introduce the legislative proposal.
            (4) Referral.--The legislation introduced under this 
        subsection in the House of Representatives shall be referred to 
        the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House 
        of Representatives. The legislation introduced under this 
        subsection in the Senate shall be referred to the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
    (c) Hearings Required.--After the date on which the legislative 
proposal is introduced in the House of Representatives and the Senate, 
the chair of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the 
House of Representatives and the chair of the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate shall hold hearings to 
provide a representative of the relevant agency the opportunity to 
testify regarding the merits of the programs described in the 
legislative proposal.
    (d) Discharge.--If the committee to which a legislative proposal 
described in subsection (a) is referred has not reported the bill 
containing such proposal by the end of the 60-day period beginning on 
the date on which the report is submitted under subsection (a), such 
committee shall be, at the end of such period, discharged from further 
consideration of such bill, and such bill shall be placed on the 
appropriate calendar of the House involved. In calculating the 60-day 
period, days on which either House is not in session because of an 
adjournment of more than 3 days to a date certain shall not be counted.
    (e) Expedited Consideration.--
            (1) Consideration.--On or after the third day after the 
        date on which the committee to which such a bill is referred 
        has reported, or has been discharged (under subsection (d)) 
        from further consideration of, such a bill, it is in order 
        (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been 
        disagreed to) for any Member of the respective House to move to 
        proceed to the consideration of the bill. A member may make the 
        motion only on the legislative day after the day on which the 
        Member announces to the House concerned the Member's intention 
        to make the motion, except that, in the case of the House of 
        Representatives, the motion may be made without such prior 
        announcement if the motion is made by direction of the 
        committee to which the bill was referred. The motion is highly 
        privileged in the House of Representatives and is privileged in 
        the Senate and is not debatable. The motion is not subject to 
        amendment, or to a motion to postpone, or to a motion to 
        proceed to the consideration of other business. A motion to 
        reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or 
        disagreed to shall not be in order. If a motion to proceed to 
        the consideration of the bill is agreed to, the respective 
        House shall immediately proceed to consideration of the bill 
        without intervening motion, order, or other business, and the 
        bill shall remain the unfinished business of the respective 
        House until disposed of.
            (2) Debate.--Debate on the bill, and on all debatable 
        motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited 
        to not more than 4 hours in the House of Representatives and 10 
        hours in the Senate, which shall be divided equally between 
        those favoring and those opposing the bill. A motion further to 
        limit debate is in order and not debatable. A motion to 
        postpone, or a motion to proceed to the consideration of other 
        business, or a motion to recommit the bill is not in order. A 
        motion to reconsider the vote by which the bill is agreed to or 
        disagreed to is not in order.
            (3) Vote on final passage.--Immediately following the 
        conclusion of the debate on the bill and a single quorum call 
        at the conclusion of the debate if requested in accordance with 
        the rules of the appropriate House, the vote on final passage 
        of the bill shall occur.
            (4) Appeals.--Appeals from the decisions of the chair 
        relating to the application of the rules of the Senate or the 
        House of Representatives, as the case may be, to the procedure 
        relating to the bill shall be decided without debate.
    (f) Exercise of Rulemaking Powers.--This section is enacted by the 
Congress--
            (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate, respectively, and as such they 
        shall be considered as part of the rules of each House, 
        respectively, or of that House to which they specifically 
        apply, and such rules shall supersede other rules only to the 
        extent that they are inconsistent therewith; and
            (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        either House to change such rules (so far as relating to such 
        House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent 
        as in the case of any other rule of such House.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section, the term ``agency'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
                                 <all>
