[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3199 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3199

 To require the appropriation of funds to use a fee, fine, penalty, or 
proceeds from a settlement received by a Federal agency, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 13, 2016

Mr. Lee (for himself, Mr. Paul, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Shelby, Mr. 
  McConnell, Mr. Cruz, and Mr. Risch) introduced the following bill; 
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the appropriation of funds to use a fee, fine, penalty, or 
proceeds from a settlement received by a Federal agency, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Agency Accountability Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS REQUIRED.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``agency''--
            (1) has the meaning given the term in section 551 of title 
        5, United States Code; and
            (2) does not include the United States Postal Service or 
        the United States Patent and Trademark Office.
    (b) Requirement.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each 
agency that receives a fee, fine, penalty, or proceeds from a 
settlement shall deposit such amount in the general fund of the 
Treasury.
    (c) Use of Amounts.--
            (1) Subject to appropriation.--Consistent with paragraph 
        (2), any amounts deposited pursuant to subsection (b) shall 
        only be available to the extent, and in such amounts, as are 
        provided in advance in appropriation Acts.
            (2) Obligation limitation; deficit reduction.--Of the 
        amounts deposited pursuant to subsection (b) during the fiscal 
        year in which this Act is enacted, those amounts--
                    (A) may not be available for obligation during the 
                fiscal year; and
                    (B) shall be used for purposes of deficit 
                reduction.
    (d) USPTO Report to Congress Required.--Not later than March 1 of 
each year, the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property 
and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office shall 
submit to Congress a report that describes any fee, fine, penalty, or 
proceeds from a settlement collected by the United States Patent and 
Trademark Office for the previous fiscal year.

SEC. 3. OFFSETTING RECEIPTS AND COLLECTIONS AS REVENUE.

    (a) In General.--The Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control 
Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 3(2)(A)(iv) (2 U.S.C. 622(2)(A)(iv)), by 
        inserting ``except as provided in section 316,'' before 
        ``offsetting receipts''; and
            (2) by inserting after section 315 (2 U.S.C. 645a) the 
        following:

``SEC. 316. TREATMENT OF OFFSETTING RECEIPTS AND COLLECTIONS.

    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, offsetting receipts 
and collections shall be treated as revenue for purposes of carrying 
out this or any other Act. The preceding sentence shall not apply to 
the United States Postal Service or the United States Patent and 
Trademark Office.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 is amended 
by inserting after the item relating to section 315 the following:

``Sec. 316. Treatment of offsetting receipts and collections.''.
    (c) Application.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
during budget years (as that term is defined in section 250(c)(12) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
900(c)(12))) beginning in 2018.
                                 <all>
