[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 799 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 799

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
          To address problems related to prenatal opioid use.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting Our Infants Act of 
2015''.

SEC. 2. ADDRESSING PROBLEMS RELATED TO PRENATAL OPIOID USE.

    (a) Review of Programs.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
(referred to in this Act as the ``Secretary'') shall conduct a review 
of planning and coordination related to prenatal opioid use, including 
neonatal abstinence syndrome, within the agencies of the Department of 
Health and Human Services.
    (b) Strategy.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
develop a strategy to address gaps in research and gaps, overlap, and 
duplication among Federal programs, including those identified in 
findings made by reports of the Government Accountability Office. Such 
strategy shall address--
            (1) gaps in research, including with respect to--
                    (A) the most appropriate treatment of pregnant 
                women with opioid use disorders;
                    (B) the most appropriate treatment and management 
                of infants with neonatal abstinence syndrome; and
                    (C) the long-term effects of prenatal opioid 
                exposure on children;
            (2) gaps, overlap, or duplication in--
                    (A) substance use disorder treatment programs for 
                pregnant and postpartum women; and
                    (B) treatment program options for newborns with 
                neonatal abstinence syndrome;
            (3) gaps, overlap, or duplication in Federal efforts 
        related to education about, and prevention of, neonatal 
        abstinence syndrome; and
            (4) coordination of Federal efforts to address neonatal 
        abstinence syndrome.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report concerning 
the findings of the review conducted under subsection (a) and the 
strategy developed under subsection (b).

SEC. 3. DEVELOPING RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PREVENTING AND TREATING PRENATAL 
              OPIOID USE DISORDERS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a study and develop 
recommendations for preventing and treating prenatal opioid use 
disorders, including the effects of such disorders on infants. In 
carrying out this subsection the Secretary shall--
            (1) take into consideration--
                    (A) the review and strategy conducted and developed 
                under section 2; and
                    (B) the lessons learned from previous opioid 
                epidemics; and
            (2) solicit input from States, localities, and Federally 
        recognized Indian tribes or tribal organizations (as defined in 
        the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 450b)), and nongovernmental entities, including 
        organizations representing patients, health care providers, 
        hospitals, other treatment facilities, and other entities, as 
        appropriate.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall make available on the appropriate 
Internet Website of the Department of Health and Human Services a 
report on the recommendations under subsection (a). Such report shall 
address each of the issues described in subsection (c).
    (c) Contents.--The recommendations described in subsection (a) and 
the report under subsection (b) shall include--
            (1) a comprehensive assessment of existing research with 
        respect to the prevention, identification, treatment, and long-
        term outcomes of neonatal abstinence syndrome, including the 
        identification and treatment of pregnant women or women who may 
        become pregnant who use opioids or have opioid use disorders;
            (2) an evaluation of--
                    (A) the causes of, and risk factors for, opioid use 
                disorders among women of reproductive age, including 
                pregnant women;
                    (B) the barriers to identifying and treating opioid 
                use disorders among women of reproductive age, 
                including pregnant and postpartum women and women with 
                young children;
                    (C) current practices in the health care system to 
                respond to, and treat, pregnant women with opioid use 
                disorders and infants affected by such disorders;
                    (D) medically indicated uses of opioids during 
                pregnancy;
                    (E) access to treatment for opioid use disorders in 
                pregnant and postpartum women; and
                    (F) access to treatment for infants with neonatal 
                abstinence syndrome; and
                    (G) differences in prenatal opioid use and use 
                disorders in pregnant women between demographic groups; 
                and
            (3) recommendations on--
                    (A) preventing, identifying, and treating the 
                effects of prenatal opioid use on infants;
                    (B) treating pregnant women who have opioid use 
                disorders;
                    (C) preventing opioid use disorders among women of 
                reproductive age, including pregnant women, who may be 
                at risk of developing opioid use disorders; and
                    (D) reducing disparities in opioid use disorders 
                among pregnant women.

SEC. 4. IMPROVING DATA AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH RESPONSE.

    The Secretary may continue activities, as appropriate, related to--
            (1) providing technical assistance to support States and 
        Federally recognized Indian Tribes in collecting information on 
        neonatal abstinence syndrome through the utilization of 
        existing surveillance systems and collaborating with States and 
        Federally recognized Indian Tribes to improve the quality, 
        consistency, and collection of such data; and
            (2) providing technical assistance to support States in 
        implementing effective public health measures, such as 
        disseminating information to educate the public, health care 
        providers, and other stakeholders on prenatal opioid use and 
        neonatal abstinence syndrome.

            Passed the Senate October 22, 2015.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 799

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

          To address problems related to prenatal opioid use.
