[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3134 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3134

 To provide for a moratorium on Federal funding to Planned Parenthood 
                      Federation of America, Inc.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 21, 2015

    Mrs. Black (for herself, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Kelly of 
    Pennsylvania, Mr. Messer, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Graves of 
 Missouri, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mrs. Wagner, 
Mr. Olson, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Roskam, Mr. DesJarlais, 
 Mr. Harris, Mr. Jones, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. Rothfus, 
 Mr. Williams, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. 
Hill, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Miller of Florida, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Labrador, 
 Mr. Boustany, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Ms. 
 Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Pitts, Mr. 
   Palazzo, Mr. Wenstrup, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Mica, Mr. 
  Aderholt, Mr. Chabot, Mrs. Lummis, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
 Wittman, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Babin, Mr. Huizenga of Michigan, Mr. Carter 
of Georgia, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Crawford, Mr. Gibbs, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. 
   Westmoreland, Mr. Kline, Mr. Benishek, Mr. Brat, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. 
Meadows, Mr. Blum, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Fleming, Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Mr. 
  Lipinski, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. 
 Goodlatte, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Long, Mr. 
   Farenthold, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. Bost, Mr. 
  Harper, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Duffy, and Mr. Flores) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                          Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for a moratorium on Federal funding to Planned Parenthood 
                      Federation of America, Inc.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 
2015''.

SEC. 2. MORATORIUM ON FEDERAL FUNDING TO PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION 
              OF AMERICA, INC.

    (a) In General.--For the one-year period beginning on the date of 
the enactment of this Act, subject to subsection (b), no funds 
authorized or appropriated by Federal law may be made available for any 
purpose to Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., or any 
affiliate or clinic of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., 
unless such entities certify that Planned Parenthood Federation of 
America affiliates and clinics will not perform, and will not provide 
any funds to any other entity that performs, an abortion during such 
period.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to an abortion--
            (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or 
        incest; or
            (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical 
        disorder, physical injury, or physical illness that would, as 
        certified by a physician, place the woman in danger of death 
        unless an abortion is performed, including a life-endangering 
        physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy 
        itself.
    (c) Repayment.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services and the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall seek repayment of any Federal assistance 
received by Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., or any 
affiliate or clinic of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., 
if it violates the terms of the certification required by subsection 
(a) during the period specified in subsection (a).
                                 <all>
