[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4402 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 322
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4402

                          [Report No. 114-423]

To require a review of information regarding persons who have traveled 
  or attempted to travel from the United States to support terrorist 
        organizations in Syria and Iraq, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 1, 2016

Mr. Hurd of Texas (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Katko, Mr. Loudermilk, 
  Ms. McSally, Mr. Ratcliffe, Ms. Loretta Sanchez of California, Mr. 
Vela, and Mr. Payne) introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                 to the Committee on Homeland Security

                           February 23, 2016

                     Additional sponsor: Ms. Sinema

                           February 23, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
    [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on 
                           February 1, 2016]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require a review of information regarding persons who have traveled 
  or attempted to travel from the United States to support terrorist 
        organizations in Syria and Iraq, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Foreign Fighter Review Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT REVIEW OF CERTAIN FOREIGN FIGHTERS.

    (a) Review.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the President, acting through the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, shall initiate a review of known instances since 2011 in 
which a person has traveled or attempted to travel to a conflict zone 
in Iraq or Syria from the United States to join or provide material 
support or resources to a terrorist organization. Such review shall--
            (1) include relevant unclassified and classified 
        information held by the United States Government related to 
        each instance;
            (2) ascertain which factors, including operational issues, 
        security vulnerabilities, systemic challenges, or other issues 
        that may have undermined efforts to prevent the travel of such 
        persons to a conflict zone in Iraq or Syria from the United 
        States, including the timely identification of suspects, 
        information sharing, intervention, and interdiction; and
            (3) identify lessons learned and areas for improvement to 
        prevent additional travel by such persons to a conflict zone in 
        Iraq or Syria, or other terrorist safe havens abroad, to join 
        or provide material support or resources to a terrorist 
        organization.
    (b) Information Sharing.--If necessary, the President shall direct 
the heads of relevant Federal agencies to provide the appropriate 
information necessary for the Secretary of Homeland Security to 
complete the review required under subsection (a).
    (c) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall, 
consistent with the protection of classified information, submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees the results of the review required 
under subsection (a), which may include information on travel routes of 
greatest concern.
    (d) Prohibition on Additional Funding.--No additional funds are 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section. This section 
shall be carried out using amounts otherwise appropriated or made 
available to the Department of Homeland Security.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) in the House of Representatives--
                            (i) the Committee on Homeland Security;
                            (ii) the Permanent Select Committee on 
                        Intelligence;
                            (iii) the Committee on the Judiciary;
                            (iv) the Committee on Armed Services;
                            (v) the Committee on Foreign Affairs;
                            (vi) the Committee on Financial Services; 
                        and
                            (vii) the Committee on Appropriations; and
                    (B) in the Senate--
                            (i) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                        Governmental Affairs;
                            (ii) the Select Committee on Intelligence;
                            (iii) the Committee on the Judiciary;
                            (iv) the Committee on Armed Services;
                            (v) the Committee on Foreign Relations;
                            (vi) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
                        Urban Affairs; and
                            (vii) the Committee on Appropriations.
            (2) Material support or resources.--The term ``material 
        support or resources'' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 2339A of title 18, United States Code.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 322

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4402

                          [Report No. 114-423]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To require a review of information regarding persons who have traveled 
  or attempted to travel from the United States to support terrorist 
        organizations in Syria and Iraq, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           February 23, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
