[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1315 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 201
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1315

                          [Report No. 114-121]

   To protect the right of law-abiding citizens to transport knives 
      interstate, notwithstanding a patchwork of local and State 
                             prohibitions.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 13, 2015

 Mr. Enzi (for himself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Lee, 
and Mr. Thune) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
   referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

                            August 28, 2015

Reported, under authority of the order of the Senate of August 5, 2015, 
                    by Mr. Thune, without amendment

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To protect the right of law-abiding citizens to transport knives 
      interstate, notwithstanding a patchwork of local and State 
                             prohibitions.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Knife Owners' Protection Act of 
2015''.

SEC. 2. INTERSTATE TRANSPORT OF KNIVES.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``transport''--
            (1) includes staying in temporary lodging overnight, common 
        carrier misrouting or delays, stops for food, fuel, vehicle 
        maintenance, emergencies, medical treatment, and any other 
        activity related to the journey of an individual; and
            (2) does not include transport of a knife with the intent 
        to commit an offense punishable by imprisonment for a term 
        exceeding 1 year involving the use or threatened use of force 
        against another person, or with knowledge, or reasonable cause 
        to believe, that such an offense is to be committed in the 
        course of, or arising from, the journey.
    (b) Transport of Knives.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, rule, or regulation of the United States, or of a State or 
political subdivision of a State, an individual who is not otherwise 
prohibited by Federal law from possessing, transporting, shipping, or 
receiving a knife may transport a knife from any State or place where 
the individual may lawfully possess, carry, or transport the knife to 
any other State or place where the individual may lawfully possess, 
carry, or transport the knife if--
            (1) in the case of transport by motor vehicle--
                    (A) the knife is not directly accessible from the 
                passenger compartment of the motor vehicle; or
                    (B) in the case of a motor vehicle without a 
                compartment separate from the passenger compartment, 
                the knife is contained in a closed--
                            (i) container;
                            (ii) glove compartment; or
                            (iii) console; or
            (2) in the case of transport by means other than a motor 
        vehicle, including any transport over land, on or through 
        water, or through the air, the knife is contained in a closed 
        container.
    (c) Emergency Knives.--
            (1) In general.--An individual--
                    (A) may carry in the passenger compartment of a 
                motor vehicle a knife or tool designed for enabling 
                escape in an emergency that incorporates a blunt tipped 
                safety blade or a guarded blade or both for cutting 
                safety belts; and
                    (B) shall not be required to secure a knife or tool 
                described in subparagraph (A) in a closed--
                            (i) container;
                            (ii) glove compartment; or
                            (iii) console.
            (2) Limitation.--This subsection shall not apply to the 
        transport of a knife or tool in the passenger cabin of an 
        aircraft whose passengers are subject to airport screening 
        procedures of the Transportation Security Administration.
    (d) No Arrest or Detention.--An individual who is transporting a 
knife in compliance with this section may not be arrested or otherwise 
detained for violation of any law, rule, or regulation of a State or 
political subdivision of a State related to the possession, transport, 
or carrying of a knife, unless there is probable cause to believe that 
the individual is not in compliance with subsection (b).
    (e) Claim or Defense.--An individual may assert this section as a 
claim or defense in any civil or criminal action or proceeding. When an 
individual asserts this section as a claim or defense in a criminal 
proceeding, the State or political subdivision shall have the burden of 
proving, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the individual was not in 
compliance with subsection (b).
    (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit any right to possess, carry, or transport a knife 
under applicable State law.
                                                       Calendar No. 201

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1315

                          [Report No. 114-121]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   To protect the right of law-abiding citizens to transport knives 
      interstate, notwithstanding a patchwork of local and State 
                             prohibitions.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            August 28, 2015

                       Reported without amendment
