[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4079 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4079

To require that supplemental certifications and identity verifications 
    be completed prior to the admission of refugees, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 19, 2015

Mr. Thompson of Mississippi (for himself, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Conyers, Mr. 
 Gallego, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Moulton, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
  Smith of Washington, and Mr. Schiff) introduced the following bill; 
          which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require that supplemental certifications and identity verifications 
    be completed prior to the admission of refugees, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Secure Refugee Process Act of 
2015''.

SEC. 2. SUPPLEMENTAL LIMITATIONS ON ADMISSION OF REFUGEES.

    (a) Identity Verification Required.--No alien shall be admitted as 
a refugee, until the alien has satisfactorily established his identity 
pursuant to procedures established by the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, which shall address any insufficient, conflicting, or 
unreliable information, including biographic and biometric data that 
has not been resolved at the time of admission.
    (b) Comprehensive Review of Refugees To Identify Security Threats 
to the United States.--No alien shall be admitted as a refugee, if, by 
the time of admission, the alien's identity has not been checked 
against all relevant records or databases maintained by the Secretary 
of Homeland Security, the Attorney General (including the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation), the Secretary of State, the Secretary of 
Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, and other Federal 
records or databases that the Secretary of Homeland Security considers 
necessary, to determine any national security, criminal, or other 
grounds on which the alien may be inadmissible to the United States.
    (c) Certification Required.--An alien may only be admitted to the 
United States as a refugee after the Secretary of Homeland Security 
certifies that all provisions of this Act have been complied with and 
that the alien has not been firmly resettled in a safe third country as 
described in section 208(b)(2)(A)(vi) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act.
    (d) Monthly Report to Congress.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
shall submit to the appropriate Congressional Committees a monthly 
report on, for the month preceding the date of the report, the total 
number of refugee applicants of special interest and the number of 
refugee applicants of special interest whose applications were denied.
    (e) Inspector General Review.--The Inspector General of the 
Department of Homeland Security shall conduct an annual risk-based 
review of a statistically valid sampling of certifications and provide 
an annual report detailing its findings to the appropriate 
Congressional Committees.
    (f) Definition.--In this Act:
            (1) The term ``appropriate Congressional Committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
                    (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
                Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (E) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate;
                    (F) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
                    (G) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (H) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                of the House of Representatives;
                    (I) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (J) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (K) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives; and
                    (L) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) The term ``refugee applicant of special interest'' 
        means any alien applying for admission to the United States as 
        a refugee who--
                    (A) is a national or resident of Iraq or Syria;
                    (B) has no nationality and whose last habitual 
                residence was in Iraq or Syria;
                    (C) has been present in Iraq or Syria at any time 
                on or after March 1, 2011; or
                    (D) meets any other criteria the Secretary deems 
                appropriate.
                                 <all>
