[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 934 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 159
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 934

                          [Report No. 114-839]

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
   34) to authorize and strengthen the tsunami detection, forecast, 
 warning, research, and mitigation program of the National Oceanic and 
 Atmospheric Administration, and for other purposes, and providing for 
  consideration of the bill (H.R. 6392) to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to specify when bank holding 
companies may be subject to certain enhanced supervision, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 29, 2016

   Mr. Burgess, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
   34) to authorize and strengthen the tsunami detection, forecast, 
 warning, research, and mitigation program of the National Oceanic and 
 Atmospheric Administration, and for other purposes, and providing for 
  consideration of the bill (H.R. 6392) to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to specify when bank holding 
companies may be subject to certain enhanced supervision, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 34) to authorize 
and strengthen the tsunami detection, forecast, warning, research, and 
mitigation program of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, and for other purposes, with the Senate amendment 
thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention of any 
point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce or his designee that the House concur in the Senate 
amendment with an amendment consisting of the text of Rules Committee 
Print 114-67 modified by the amendment printed in part A of the report 
of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. The Senate 
amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall 
be debatable for 80 minutes, with 60 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
motion to its adoption without intervening motion.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 6392) to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to specify when bank holding 
companies may be subject to certain enhanced supervision, and for other 
purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Financial Services; (2) the amendment printed in 
part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution, if offered by the Member designated in the report, which 
shall be in order without intervention of any point of order, shall be 
considered as read, shall be separately debatable for the time 
specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for a division of 
the question; and (3) one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
                                                 House Calendar No. 159

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 934

                          [Report No. 114-839]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
   34) to authorize and strengthen the tsunami detection, forecast, 
 warning, research, and mitigation program of the National Oceanic and 
 Atmospheric Administration, and for other purposes, and providing for 
  consideration of the bill (H.R. 6392) to amend the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to specify when bank holding 
companies may be subject to certain enhanced supervision, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           November 29, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
