[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5485 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 484
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5485

                          [Report No. 114-624]

Making appropriations for financial services and general government for 
   the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 15, 2016

   Mr. Crenshaw, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
following bill; which was committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for financial services and general government for 
   the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,  That the following 
sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Freedman's Bank 
Building; hire of passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and 
improvements of, and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, 
real properties leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the 
performance of official business; executive direction program 
activities; international affairs and economic policy activities; 
domestic finance and tax policy activities, including technical 
assistance to Puerto Rico; and Treasury-wide management policies and 
programs activities, $250,000,000: Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not to exceed $350,000 is for official reception and 
        representation expenses;
            (2) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen emergencies of 
        a confidential nature to be allocated and expended under the 
        direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be accounted 
        for solely on the Secretary's certificate; and
            (3) not to exceed $57,000,000 shall remain available until 
        September 30, 2018, for--
                    (A) the Treasury-wide Financial Statement Audit and 
                Internal Control Program;
                    (B) information technology modernization 
                requirements;
                    (C) the audit, oversight, and administration of the 
                Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund;
                    (D) the development and implementation of programs 
                within the Office of Critical Infrastructure Protection 
                and Compliance Policy, including entering into 
                cooperative agreements; and
                    (E) cybersecurity.

             office of terrorism and financial intelligence

                         salaries and expenses

    For the necessary expenses of the Office of Terrorism and Financial 
Intelligence to safeguard the financial system against illicit use and 
to combat rogue nations, terrorist facilitators, weapons of mass 
destruction proliferators, money launderers, drug kingpins, and other 
national security threats, $120,000,000: Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading: (1) not to exceed $27,500,000 is 
available for administrative expenses; and (2) $5,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$37,044,000, including hire of passenger motor vehicles; of which not 
to exceed $100,000 shall be available for unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under the direction 
of the Inspector General of the Treasury; of which up to $2,800,000 to 
remain available until September 30, 2018, shall be for audits and 
investigations conducted pursuant to section 1608 of the Resources and 
Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies 
of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note); and of 
which not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses.

           treasury inspector general for tax administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 
U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such 
rates as may be determined by the Inspector General for Tax 
Administration; $169,634,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018; of which not to exceed $500,000 
shall be available for unforeseen emergencies of a confidential nature, 
to be allocated and expended under the direction of the Inspector 
General for Tax Administration; and of which not to exceed $1,500 shall 
be available for official reception and representation expenses.

    special inspector general for the troubled asset relief program

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Special Inspector 
General in carrying out the provisions of the Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-343), $41,160,000.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and training 
expenses of non-Federal and foreign government personnel to attend 
meetings and training concerned with domestic and foreign financial 
intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial regulation; 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and for assistance to 
Federal law enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
$116,000,000, of which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019.

                        Treasury Forfeiture Fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$753,610,000 are rescinded.

                      Bureau of the Fiscal Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of operations of the Bureau of the Fiscal 
Service, $353,057,000; of which not to exceed $4,210,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2019, is for information systems 
modernization initiatives; and of which $5,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.
    In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability 
Trust Fund, to reimburse administrative and personnel expenses for 
financial management of the Fund, as authorized by section 1012 of 
Public Law 101-380.

                Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of carrying out section 1111 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$111,439,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $50,000 for cooperative research 
and development programs for laboratory services; and provision of 
laboratory assistance to State and local agencies with or without 
reimbursement: Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading, $5,000,000 shall be for the costs of accelerating the 
processing of formula and label applications: Provided further, That of 
the amount appropriated under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be for the 
costs of programs to enforce trade practice violations of the Federal 
Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 201 et seq.).

                           United States Mint

               united states mint public enterprise fund

    Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, the 
United States Mint is provided funding through the United States Mint 
Public Enterprise Fund for costs associated with the production of 
circulating coins, numismatic coins, and protective services, including 
both operating expenses and capital investments: Provided, That the 
aggregate amount of new liabilities and obligations incurred during 
fiscal year 2017 under such section 5136 for circulating coinage and 
protective service capital investments of the United States Mint shall 
not exceed $30,000,000.

   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account

    To carry out the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory 
Improvement Act of 1994 (subtitle A of title I of Public Law 103-325), 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for 
individuals not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for 
EX-3, $250,000,000. Of the amount appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not less than $184,000,000, is available until 
        September 30, 2018, for financial assistance and technical 
        assistance under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 
        108(a)(1), respectively, of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 
        4707(a)(1)(A) and (B)), of which up to $2,882,500 may be used 
        for the cost of direct loans: Provided, That the cost of direct 
        and guaranteed loans, including the cost of modifying such 
        loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are 
        available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal 
        amount of direct loans not to exceed $25,000,000;
            (2) not less than $6,000,000, notwithstanding subsections 
        (d) and (e) of section 108 of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 
        4707(d) and (e)), is available until September 30, 2018, to 
        provide financial assistance, technical assistance, training, 
        and outreach to community development financial institutions to 
        expand investments that benefit individuals with disabilities;
            (3) not less than $16,000,000, notwithstanding section 
        108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)), is available 
        until September 30, 2018, for financial assistance, technical 
        assistance, training and outreach programs designed to benefit 
        Native American, Native Hawaiian, and Alaskan Native 
        communities and provided primarily through qualified community 
        development lender organizations with experience and expertise 
        in community development banking and lending in Indian country, 
        Native American organizations, tribes and tribal organizations, 
        and other suitable providers;
            (4) not less than $19,000,000 is available until September 
        30, 2018, for the Bank Enterprise Award Program;
            (5) up to $25,000,000 is for administrative expenses, 
        including administration of CDFI fund programs and the New 
        Markets Tax Credit Program, of which not less than $2,000,000 
        is available for capacity building to CDFIs to expand 
        investments that benefit individuals with disabilities, and up 
        to $300,000 is for administrative expenses to carry out the 
        direct loan program; and
            (6) during fiscal year 2017, none of the funds available 
        under this heading are available for the cost, as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
        commitments to guarantee bonds and notes under section 114A of 
        the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act 
        of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4713a): Provided, That commitments to 
        guarantee bonds and notes under such section 114A shall not 
        exceed $250,000,000: Provided further, That such section 114A 
        shall remain in effect until September 30, 2017;
 Provided, that of the funds awarded under this heading, not less than 
10 percent shall be used for awards that support investments that serve 
populations living in persistent poverty counties: Provided further, 
That for the purposes of the preceding proviso, the term ``persistent 
poverty counties'' means any county that has had 20 percent or more of 
its population living in poverty over the past 30 years, as measured by 
the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and the most recent Small Area 
Income and Poverty Estimates.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                           taxpayer services

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to provide 
taxpayer services, including pre-filing assistance and education, 
filing and account services, taxpayer advocacy services, and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $2,156,554,000, of which not less than 
$6,500,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, of 
which not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for low-income 
taxpayer clinic grants, and of which not less than $15,000,000 to 
remain available until September 30, 2018, shall be available for a 
Community Volunteer Income Tax Assistance matching grants program for 
tax return preparation assistance, and of which not less than 
$206,000,000 shall be available for operating expenses of the Taxpayer 
Advocate Service: Provided, That of the amounts made available for the 
Taxpayer Advocate Service, not less than $5,000,000 shall be for 
identity theft casework.

                              enforcement

    For necessary expenses for tax enforcement activities of the 
Internal Revenue Service to determine and collect owed taxes, to 
provide legal and litigation support, to conduct criminal 
investigations, to enforce criminal statutes related to violations of 
internal revenue laws and other financial crimes, to purchase and hire 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to provide other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $4,760,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$50,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018, and of 
which not less than $60,257,000 shall be for the Interagency Crime and 
Drug Enforcement program.

                           operations support

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to support 
taxpayer services and enforcement programs, including rent payments; 
facilities services; printing; postage; physical security; headquarters 
and other IRS-wide administration activities; research and statistics 
of income; telecommunications; information technology development, 
enhancement, operations, maintenance, and security; the hire of 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); the operations of the 
Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board; and other services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner; $3,502,446,000, of which not to exceed $50,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018; of which not to exceed 
$6,000,000 shall remain available until expended for acquisition of 
equipment and construction, repair and renovation of facilities; of 
which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2019, for research; of which not to exceed $20,000 shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided, That not 
later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, the Internal Revenue 
Service shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate and the Comptroller General 
of the United States detailing the cost and schedule performance for 
its major information technology investments, including the purpose and 
life-cycle stages of the investments; the reasons for any cost and 
schedule variances; the risks of such investments and strategies the 
Internal Revenue Service is using to mitigate such risks; and the 
expected developmental milestones to be achieved and costs to be 
incurred in the next quarter:  Provided further, That the Internal 
Revenue Service shall include, in its budget justification for fiscal 
year 2018, a summary of cost and schedule performance information for 
its major information technology systems.

                     business systems modernization

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service's business 
systems modernization program, $290,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2019, for the capital asset acquisition of information 
technology systems, including management and related contractual costs 
of said acquisitions, including related Internal Revenue Service labor 
costs, and contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That not later than 30 days after the end of 
each quarter, the Internal Revenue Service shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate and the Comptroller General of the United States detailing the 
cost and schedule performance for CADE 2 and Modernized e-File 
information technology investments, including the purposes and life-
cycle stages of the investments; the reasons for any cost and schedule 
variances; the risks of such investments and the strategies the 
Internal Revenue Service is using to mitigate such risks; and the 
expected developmental milestones to be achieved and costs to be 
incurred in the next quarter.

          administrative provisions--internal revenue service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 101.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 102.  The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain an employee 
training program, which shall include the following topics: taxpayers' 
rights, dealing courteously with taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, 
ethics, and the impartial application of tax law.
    Sec. 103.  The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and enforce 
policies and procedures that will safeguard the confidentiality of 
taxpayer information and protect taxpayers against identity theft.
    Sec. 104.  Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased staffing to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line 
service for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make 
improvements to the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a 
priority and allocate resources necessary to enhance the response time 
to taxpayer communications, particularly with regard to victims of tax-
related crimes.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available to the Internal Revenue 
Service by this or any other Act may be used to make a video unless the 
Service-Wide Video Editorial Board determines in advance that making 
the video is appropriate, taking into account the cost, topic, tone, 
and purpose of the video.
    Sec. 106.  The Internal Revenue Service shall issue a notice of 
confirmation of any address change relating to an employer making 
employment tax payments, and such notice shall be sent to both the 
employer's former and new address and an officer or employee of the 
Internal Revenue Service shall give special consideration to an offer-
in-compromise from a taxpayer who has been the victim of fraud by a 
third party payroll tax preparer.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available under this or any other 
Act may be used by the Internal Revenue Service to target citizens of 
the United States for exercising any right guaranteed under the First 
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used by the Internal Revenue Service to target groups for 
regulatory scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs.
    Sec. 109.  None of funds made available by this or any other Act to 
the Internal Revenue Service shall be obligated or expended on 
conferences that do not adhere to the procedures, verification 
processes, documentation requirements, and policies issued by the Chief 
Financial Officer, Human Capital Office, and Agency-Wide Shared 
Services as a result of the recommendations in the report published on 
May 31, 2013, by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration 
entitled ``Review of the August 2010 Small Business/Self-Employed 
Division's Conference in Anaheim, California'' (Reference Number 2013-
10-037).
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to pay the salaries or expenses of any individual to 
carry out any transfer of funds to the Internal Revenue Service under 
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) or 
the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 
111-152).
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used by the Internal Revenue Service to implement or enforce 
section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, section 6055 of 
such Code, section 1502(c) of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act (Public Law 111-148), or any amendments made by section 
1502(b) of such Act.
    Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be obligated or expended--
            (1) to make a payment to any employee under a bonus, award, 
        or recognition program; or
            (2) under any hiring or personnel selection process with 
        respect to re-hiring a former employee,
unless such program or process takes into account the conduct and 
Federal tax compliance of such employee or former employee.
    Sec. 113.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used in contravention of section 6103 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to confidentiality and disclosure of 
returns and return information).
    Sec. 114.  Except to the extent provided in section 6014, 6020, or 
6201(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, none of the funds in this 
or any other Act shall be available to the Secretary of the Treasury to 
provide to any person a proposed final return or statement for use by 
such person to satisfy a filing or reporting requirement under such 
Code.
    Sec. 115.  In addition to the amounts otherwise made available in 
this Act for the Internal Revenue Service, $290,000,000, to be 
available until September 30, 2018, shall be transferred by the 
Commissioner to the ``Taxpayer Services'', ``Enforcement'', or 
``Operations Support'' accounts of the Internal Revenue Service for an 
additional amount to be used solely for measurable improvements in the 
customer service representative level of service rate, to improve the 
identification and prevention of refund fraud and identity theft, and 
to enhance cybersecurity to safeguard taxpayer data: Provided, That 
such funds shall supplement, not supplant any other amounts made 
available by the Internal Revenue Service for such purpose: Provided 
further, That such funds shall not be available until the Commissioner 
submits to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a spending plan for such funds: Provided 
further, That such funds shall not be used to support any provision of 
Public Law 111-148, Public Law 111-152, or any amendment made by either 
such Public Law.

         Administrative Provisions--Department of the Treasury

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 116.  Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services 
to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 117.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this 
title made available under the headings ``Departmental Offices--
Salaries and Expenses'', ``Office of Inspector General'', ``Special 
Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program'', ``Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network'', ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service'', 
``Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account'', 
and ``Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau'' may be transferred 
between such appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: 
Provided, That no transfer under this section may increase or decrease 
any such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 118.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration's 
appropriation upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: 
Provided, That no transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 119.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act or otherwise 
available to the Department of the Treasury or the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
    Sec. 120.  The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds from 
the ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service--Salaries and Expenses'' to the Debt 
Collection Fund as necessary to cover the costs of debt collection: 
Provided, That such amounts shall be reimbursed to such salaries and 
expenses account from debt collections received in the Debt Collection 
Fund.
    Sec. 121.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used by the United States 
Mint to construct or operate any museum without the explicit approval 
of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, the House Committee on Financial Services, and the Senate 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    Sec. 122.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act or source to the Department of the 
Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and the United States 
Mint, individually or collectively, may be used to consolidate any or 
all functions of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and the United 
States Mint without the explicit approval of the House Committee on 
Financial Services; the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs; and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 123.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for the Department of the Treasury's 
intelligence or intelligence related activities are deemed to be 
specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 
2017 until the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017.
    Sec. 124.  Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made available from the 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing's Industrial Revolving Fund for 
necessary official reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 125.  The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a Capital 
Investment Plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives not later than 30 days following the 
submission of the annual budget submitted by the President: Provided, 
That such Capital Investment Plan shall include capital investment 
spending from all accounts within the Department of the Treasury, 
including but not limited to the Department-wide Systems and Capital 
Investment Programs account, Treasury Franchise Fund account, and the 
Treasury Forfeiture Fund account: Provided further, That such Capital 
Investment Plan shall include expenditures occurring in previous fiscal 
years for each capital investment project that has not been fully 
completed.
    Sec. 126.  Within 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an itemized report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate on the amount of total funds charged to each office by the 
Franchise Fund including the amount charged for each service provided 
by the Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed description of the 
services, a detailed explanation of how each charge for each service is 
calculated, and a description of the role customers have in governing 
in the Franchise Fund.
    Sec. 127.  During fiscal year 2017--
            (1) none of the funds made available in this or any other 
        Act may be used by the Department of the Treasury, including 
        the Internal Revenue Service, to issue, revise, or finalize any 
        regulation, revenue ruling, or other guidance not limited to a 
        particular taxpayer relating to the standard which is used to 
        determine whether an organization is operated exclusively for 
        the promotion of social welfare for purposes of section 
        501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (including the 
        proposed regulations published at 78 Fed. Reg. 71535 (November 
        29, 2013)); and
            (2) the standard and definitions as in effect on January 1, 
        2010, which are used to make such determinations shall apply 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act for purposes of 
        determining status under section 501(c)(4) of such Code of 
        organizations created on, before, or after such date.
    Sec. 128. (a) Not later than 60 days after the end of each quarter, 
the Office of Financial Stability and the Office of Financial Research 
shall submit reports on their activities to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    (b) The reports required under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) the obligations made during the previous quarter by 
        object class, office, and activity;
            (2) the estimated obligations for the remainder of the 
        fiscal year by object class, office, and activity;
            (3) the number of full-time equivalents within each office 
        during the previous quarter;
            (4) the estimated number of full-time equivalents within 
        each office for the remainder of the fiscal year; and
            (5) actions taken to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
        performance measures of each office.
    (c) At the request of any such Committees specified in subsection 
(a), the Office of Financial Stability and the Office of Financial 
Research shall make officials available to testify on the contents of 
the reports required under subsection (a).
    Sec. 129.  During fiscal year 2017, the Office of Financial 
Research shall provide for a public notice period of not less than 90 
days before issuing any proposed report, rule, or regulation.
    Sec. 130. (a) Section 155 of Public Law 111-203 is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``immediately''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``as provided for in 
                        appropriation Acts'' after ``to the Office'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2); and
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (2).
            (2) In subsection (d), by striking the heading and 
        inserting ``ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE.--''.
    (b) The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on 
October 1, 2017.
    Sec. 131.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be obligated or expended to provide for the 
enforcement of any rule, regulation, policy, or guideline implemented 
pursuant to the Department of the Treasury Guidance for United States 
Positions on MDBs Engaging with Developing Countries on Coal-Fired 
Power Generation dated October 29, 2013, when enforcement of such rule, 
regulation, policy, or guideline would prohibit, or have the effect of 
prohibiting, the carrying out of any coal-fired or other power-
generation project the purpose of which is to increase exports of goods 
and services from the United States or prevent the loss of jobs from 
the United States.
    Sec. 132.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to approve, license, facilitate, authorize, or otherwise allow, whether 
by general or specific license, travel-related or other transactions 
incident to non-academic educational exchanges described in section 
515.565(b)(2) of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 133. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to approve, license, facilitate, authorize, or otherwise allow the 
use, purchase, trafficking, or import of property confiscated by the 
Cuban Government.
    (b) In this section, the terms ``confiscated'', ``Cuban 
Government'', ``property'', and ``traffic'' have the meanings given 
such terms in paragraphs (4), (5), (12)(A), and (13), respectively, of 
section 4 of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act 
of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 6023).
    Sec. 134. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to approve, license, facilitate, authorize, or otherwise allow any 
financial transaction with an entity owned or controlled, in whole or 
in part, by the Cuban military or intelligence service or with any 
officer of the Cuban military or intelligence service, or an immediate 
family member thereof.
    (b) The limitation on the use of funds under this section does not 
apply to financial transactions with respect to exports of goods 
permitted under the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act 
of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.) or to payments in furtherance of the 
lease agreement or other financial transactions necessary for 
maintenance and improvements of the United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, including any adjacent areas under the control or 
possession of the United States.
    (c) In this section--
            (1) the term ``Cuban military'' includes the Ministry of 
        the Revolutionary Armed Forces and the Ministry of the 
        Interior, and their subsidiaries; and
            (2) the term ``immediate family member'' means a spouse, 
        sibling, child (adopted or otherwise), parent, grandparent, 
        grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece, or nephew.
    Sec. 135. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to authorize a general license or approve a specific license under 
section 501.801 or 515.527 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, 
with respect to a mark, trade name, or commercial name that is the same 
as or substantially similar to a mark, trade name, or commercial name 
that was used in connection with a business or assets that were 
confiscated unless the original owner of the mark, trade name, or 
commercial name, or the bona-fide successor-in-interest has expressly 
consented.
    (b) In this section, the term ``confiscated'' has a meaning given 
such term in section 4(4) of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic 
Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 6023(4)).
    Sec. 136.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Internal Revenue Service to make a determination that a church, 
an integrated auxiliary of a church, or a convention or association of 
churches is not exempt from taxation for participating in, or 
intervening in, any political campaign on behalf of (or in opposition 
to) any candidate for public office unless--
            (1) the Commissioner of Internal Revenue consents to such 
        determination;
            (2) not later than 30 days after such determination, the 
        Commissioner notifies the Committee on Ways and Means of the 
        House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the 
        Senate of such determination; and
            (3) such determination is effective with respect to the 
        church, integrated auxiliary of a church, or convention or 
        association of churches not earlier than 90 days after the date 
        of the notification under paragraph (2).
Consent under paragraph (1) may not be delegated.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of the Treasury 
Appropriations Act, 2017''.

                                TITLE II

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                               PRESIDENT

                            The White House

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, and travel (not to 
exceed $100,000 to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed $19,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be available for allocation within the 
Executive Office of the President; and for necessary expenses of the 
Office of Policy Development, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, $55,000,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Executive Residence at the White 
House, $12,723,000, to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount 
for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of 
the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable 
operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that 
such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such 
notice: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under 31 U.S.C. 3717: Provided further, That 
each such amount that is reimbursed, and any accompanying interest and 
charges, shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: 
Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall prepare and submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after 
the end of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a report setting forth 
the reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence during 
the preceding fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, 
the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable official and 
ceremonial events, the amount of such total that consists of 
reimbursable political events, and the portion of each such amount that 
has been reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided further, 
That the Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking 
of expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive 
Residence that includes a standard for the classification of any such 
expense as political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no 
provision of this paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive 
Residence from any other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II 
of chapter 37 of title 31, United States Code.

                   White House Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 105(d), $750,000, to 
remain available until expended, for required maintenance, resolution 
of safety and health issues, and continued preventative maintenance.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisers in 
carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 
1021 et seq.), $4,200,000.

        National Security Council and Homeland Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council and the 
Homeland Security Council, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $10,896,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $96,116,000, of which not to exceed 
$12,760,000 shall remain available until expended for continued 
modernization of information resources within the Executive Office of 
the President.

             Presidential Transition Administrative Support

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of Administration to carry out the 
Presidential Transition Act of 1963 and similar expenses, in addition 
to amounts otherwise appropriated by law, $7,582,000: Provided, That 
such funds may be transferred to other accounts that provide funding 
for offices within the Executive Office of the President and the Office 
of the Vice President in this Act or any other Act, to carry out such 
purposes.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 
44, United States Code, and to prepare and submit the budget of the 
United States Government, in accordance with section 1105(a) of title 
31, United States Code, $91,000,000, of which not to exceed $3,000 
shall be available for official representation expenses: Provided, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office of Management 
and Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any agricultural 
marketing orders or any activities or regulations under the provisions 
of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et 
seq.): Provided further, That none of the funds made available for the 
Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for the 
altering of the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except for 
testimony of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, before 
the Committees on Appropriations or their subcommittees: Provided 
further, That of the funds made available for the Office of Management 
and Budget by this Act, no less than three full-time equivalent senior 
staff positions shall be dedicated solely to the Office of the 
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator: Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided in this or prior Acts shall be used, 
directly or indirectly, by the Office of Management and Budget, for 
evaluating or determining if water resource project or study reports 
submitted by the Chief of Engineers acting through the Secretary of the 
Army are in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and 
requirements relevant to the Civil Works water resource planning 
process: Provided further, That the Office of Management and Budget 
shall have not more than 60 days in which to perform budgetary policy 
reviews of water resource matters on which the Chief of Engineers has 
reported: Provided further, That the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall notify the appropriate authorizing and 
appropriating committees when the 60-day review is initiated: Provided 
further, That if water resource reports have not been transmitted to 
the appropriate authorizing and appropriating committees within 15 days 
after the end of the Office of Management and Budget review period 
based on the notification from the Director, Congress shall assume 
Office of Management and Budget concurrence with the report and act 
accordingly.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-469); not to 
exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
for participation in joint projects or in the provision of services on 
matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or public 
organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement, $19,274,000: 
Provided, That the Office is authorized to accept, hold, administer, 
and utilize gifts, both real and personal, public and private, without 
fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the 
work of the Office.

                     federal drug control programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $253,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2018, for drug control 
activities consistent with the approved strategy for each of the 
designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (``HIDTAs''), of which 
not less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State and local 
entities for drug control activities and shall be obligated not later 
than 120 days after enactment of this Act: Provided, That up to 49 
percent may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments in 
amounts determined by the Director of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy, of which up to $2,700,000 may be used for auditing 
services and associated activities: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the requirements of Public Law 106-58, any unexpended 
funds obligated prior to fiscal year 2015 may be used for any other 
approved activities of that HIDTA, subject to reprogramming 
requirements: Provided further, That each HIDTA designated as of 
September 30, 2016, shall be funded at not less than the fiscal year 
2016 base level, unless the Director submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
justification for changes to those levels based on clearly articulated 
priorities and published Office of National Drug Control Policy 
performance measures of effectiveness: Provided further, That the 
Director shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the initial 
allocation of fiscal year 2017 funding among HIDTAs not later than 45 
days after enactment of this Act, and shall notify the Committees of 
planned uses of discretionary HIDTA funding, as determined in 
consultation with the HIDTA Directors, not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That upon a determination that 
all or part of the funds so transferred from this appropriation are not 
necessary for the purposes provided herein and upon notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation.

                  other federal drug control programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For other drug control activities authorized by the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 
109-469), $111,871,000, to remain available until expended, which shall 
be available as follows: $97,000,000 for the Drug-Free Communities 
Program, of which $2,000,000 shall be made available as directed by 
section 4 of Public Law 107-82, as amended by Public Law 109-469 (21 
U.S.C. 1521 note); $2,000,000 for drug court training and technical 
assistance; $9,500,000 for anti-doping activities; $2,121,000 for the 
United States membership dues to the World Anti-Doping Agency; and 
$1,250,000 shall be made available as directed by section 1105 of 
Public Law 109-469: Provided, That amounts made available under this 
heading may be transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to 
carry out such activities.

              Information Technology Oversight and Reform

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the furtherance of integrated, 
efficient, secure, and effective uses of information technology in the 
Federal Government, $25,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may 
transfer these funds to one or more other agencies to carry out 
projects to meet these purposes.

                  Special Assistance to the President

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $4,228,000.

                Official Residence of the Vice President

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, and to the 
extent not otherwise provided for, heating and lighting, including 
electric power and fixtures, of the official residence of the Vice 
President; the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed 
$90,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 106(b)(2), $299,000: Provided, That 
advances, repayments, or transfers from this appropriation may be made 
to any department or agency for expenses of carrying out such 
activities.

Administrative Provisions--Executive Office of the President and Funds 
                     Appropriated to the President

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  From funds made available in this Act under the headings 
``The White House'', ``Executive Residence at the White House'', 
``White House Repair and Restoration'', ``Council of Economic 
Advisers'', ``National Security Council and Homeland Security 
Council'', ``Office of Administration'', ``Special Assistance to the 
President'', and ``Official Residence of the Vice President'', the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget (or such other officer 
as the President may designate in writing), may, with advance approval 
of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 percent of any such appropriation 
to any other such appropriation, to be merged with and available for 
the same time and for the same purposes as the appropriation to which 
transferred: Provided, That the amount of an appropriation shall not be 
increased by more than 50 percent by such transfers: Provided further, 
That no amount shall be transferred from ``Special Assistance to the 
President'' or ``Official Residence of the Vice President'' without the 
approval of the Vice President.
    Sec. 202.  Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this 
section, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on the costs of implementing the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-
203). Such report shall include--
            (1) the estimated mandatory and discretionary obligations 
        of funds through fiscal year 2019, by Federal agency and by 
        fiscal year, including--
                    (A) the estimated obligations by cost inputs such 
                as rent, information technology, contracts, and 
                personnel;
                    (B) the methodology and data sources used to 
                calculate such estimated obligations; and
                    (C) the specific section of such Act that requires 
                the obligation of funds; and
            (2) the estimated receipts through fiscal year 2019 from 
        assessments, user fees, and other fees by the Federal agency 
        making the collections, by fiscal year, including--
                    (A) the methodology and data sources used to 
                calculate such estimated collections; and
                    (B) the specific section of such Act that 
                authorizes the collection of funds.
    Sec. 203. (a) During fiscal year 2017, any Executive order or 
Presidential memorandum issued or revoked by the President shall be 
accompanied by a written statement from the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget on the budgetary impact, including costs, 
benefits, and revenues, of such order or memorandum.
    (b) Any such statement shall include--
            (1) a narrative summary of the budgetary impact of such 
        order or memorandum on the Federal Government;
            (2) the impact on mandatory and discretionary obligations 
        and outlays as the result of such order or memorandum, listed 
        by Federal agency, for each year in the 5-fiscal-year period 
        beginning in fiscal year 2017; and
            (3) the impact on revenues of the Federal Government as the 
        result of such order or memorandum over the 5-fiscal-year 
        period beginning in fiscal year 2017.
    (c) If an Executive order or Presidential memorandum is issued 
during fiscal year 2017 due to a national emergency, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget may issue the statement required by 
subsection (a) not later than 15 days after the date that such order or 
memorandum is issued.
    Sec. 204.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries and expenses of any officer or employee of the 
Executive Office of the President to prepare, sign, or approve 
statements abrogating legislation passed by the House of 
Representatives and the Senate and signed by the President.
    Sec. 205.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries and expenses of any officer or employee of the 
Executive Office of the President to prepare or implement an Executive 
order or Presidential memorandum that contravenes existing law.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office of the President 
Appropriations Act, 2017''.

                               TITLE III

                             THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344; not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for miscellaneous expenses, to be expended as the Chief 
Justice may approve, $76,668,000, of which $1,500,000 shall remain 
available until expended.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief justice and associate 
justices of the court.

                    care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect 
of the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon the Architect by 40 
U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $14,868,000, to remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of officers and employees, and for necessary expenses 
of the court, as authorized by law, $30,108,000.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief judge and judges of the 
court.

               United States Court of International Trade

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of officers and employees of the court, services, and 
necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, $18,462,000.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief judge and judges of the 
court.

    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries of judges of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims, magistrate judges, and all other officers and employees of the 
Federal Judiciary not otherwise specifically provided for, necessary 
expenses of the courts, and the purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning 
of uniforms for Probation and Pretrial Services Office staff, as 
authorized by law, $5,010,000,000 (including the purchase of firearms 
and ammunition); of which not to exceed $27,817,000 shall remain 
available until expended for space alteration projects and for 
furniture and furnishings related to new space alteration and 
construction projects.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of circuit and district judges 
(including judges of the territorial courts of the United States), 
bankruptcy judges, and justices and judges retired from office or from 
regular active service.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-660), not to exceed 
$6,260,000, to be appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation 
Trust Fund.

                           defender services

    For the operation of Federal Defender organizations; the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys appointed to 
represent persons under 18 U.S.C. 3006A and 3599, and for the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of persons furnishing 
investigative, expert, and other services for such representations as 
authorized by law; the compensation (in accordance with the maximums 
under 18 U.S.C. 3006A) and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed to assist the court in criminal cases where the defendant has 
waived representation by counsel; the compensation and reimbursement of 
expenses of attorneys appointed to represent jurors in civil actions 
for the protection of their employment, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1875(d)(1); the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1) in connection with certain judicial 
civil forfeiture proceedings; the compensation and reimbursement of 
travel expenses of guardians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C. 
4100(b); and for necessary training and general administrative 
expenses, $1,056,326,000, to remain available until expended.

                    fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71.1(h)), $43,723,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 5 
U.S.C. 5332.

                             court security

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to the 
provision of protective guard services for United States courthouses 
and other facilities housing Federal court operations, and the 
procurement, installation, and maintenance of security systems and 
equipment for United States courthouses and other facilities housing 
Federal court operations, including building ingress-egress control, 
inspection of mail and packages, directed security patrols, perimeter 
security, basic security services provided by the Federal Protective 
Service, and other similar activities as authorized by section 1010 of 
the Judicial Improvement and Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-
702), $565,388,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended, to be expended directly or transferred to the 
United States Marshals Service, which shall be responsible for 
administering the Judicial Facility Security Program consistent with 
standards or guidelines agreed to by the Director of the Administrative 
Office of the United States Courts and the Attorney General.

           Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 
31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $87,500,000, of which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Judicial Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
authorized by Public Law 90-219, $28,200,000; of which $1,800,000 shall 
remain available through September 30, 2018, to provide education and 
training to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,500 
is authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                  United States Sentencing Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $18,000,000, of which 
not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                Administrative Provisions--The Judiciary

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 301.  Appropriations and authorizations made in this title 
which are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
except ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Defender Services'' and ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', shall 
be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under sections 604 and 608 of this Act and shall 
not be available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance 
with the procedures set forth in section 608.
    Sec. 303.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services'' shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United 
States: Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $11,000 
and shall be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office 
of the United States Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the 
Judicial Conference.
    Sec. 304.  Section 3314(a) of title 40, United States Code, shall 
be applied by substituting ``Federal'' for ``executive'' each place it 
appears.
    Sec. 305.  In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561-569, and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States Marshals 
Service shall provide, for such courthouses as its Director may 
designate in consultation with the Director of the Administrative 
Office of the United States Courts, for purposes of a pilot program, 
the security services that 40 U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of 
Homeland Security to provide, except for the services specified in 40 
U.S.C. 1315(b)(2)(E). For building-specific security services at these 
courthouses, the Director of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts shall reimburse the United States Marshals Service rather 
than the Department of Homeland Security.
    Sec. 306. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial Improvements Act of 
1990 (Public Law 101-650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended in the second 
sentence (relating to the District of Kansas) following paragraph (12), 
by striking ``25 years and 6 months'' and inserting ``26 years and 6 
months''.
    (b) Section 406 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban 
Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2470; 
28 U.S.C. 133 note) is amended in the second sentence (relating to the 
eastern District of Missouri) by striking ``23 years and 6 months'' and 
inserting ``24 years and 6 months''.
    (c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century Department of Justice 
Appropriations Authorization Act (Public Law 107-273; 28 U.S.C. 133 
note), is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence by striking ``14 years'' and 
        inserting ``15 years'';
            (2) in the second sentence (relating to the central 
        District of California), by striking ``13 years and 6 months'' 
        and inserting ``14 years and 6 months''; and
            (3) in the third sentence (relating to the western district 
        of North Carolina), by striking ``12 years'' and inserting ``13 
        years''.
    Sec. 307. (a) Section 1871(b) of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended in paragraph (1) by striking ``$40'' and inserting ``$50''.
    (b) EFFECTIVE DATE.-- The amendment made in subsection (a) shall 
take effect 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 308. (a) Section 2(a)(2)(A) of the Temporary Bankruptcy 
Judgeships Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note; Public Law 112-
121) is amended by striking ``subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E)'' 
and inserting ``subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), and (H)''.
    (b) Section 2(a)(2) of the Temporary Bankruptcy Judgeships 
Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note; Public Law 112-121) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) Eastern district of michigan.--The 1st 
                vacancy in the office of a bankruptcy judge for the 
                eastern district of Michigan--
                            ``(i) occurring 6 years or more after the 
                        date of the enactment of this Act, and
                            ``(ii) resulting from the death, 
                        retirement, resignation, or removal of a 
                        bankruptcy judge,
                shall not be filled.
                    ``(G) District of puerto rico.--The 1st vacancy in 
                the office of a bankruptcy judge for the district of 
                Puerto Rico--
                            ``(i) occurring 6 years or more after the 
                        date of the enactment of this Act, and
                            ``(ii) resulting from the death, 
                        retirement, resignation, or removal of a 
                        bankruptcy judge,
                shall not be filled.
                    ``(H) Eastern district of virginia.--The 1st 
                vacancy in the office of a bankruptcy judge for the 
                eastern district of Virginia--
                            ``(i) occurring 6 years or more after the 
                        date of the enactment of this Act, and
                            ``(ii) resulting from the death, 
                        retirement, resignation, or removal of a 
                        bankruptcy judge,
                shall not be filled.''.
    (c) Section 2(a)(2)(C) of the Temporary Bankruptcy Judgeships 
Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note; Public Law 112-121) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as clauses (ii) 
        and (iii), respectively;
            (2) by inserting before clause (ii), as so redesignated, 
        the following:
                            ``(i) in the case of the 1st and 2d 
                        vacancies, occurring more than 6 years after 
                        the date of the enactment of this Act,''; and
            (3) in clause (ii), as so redesignated, by inserting ``in 
        the case of the 3d and 4th vacancies,'' before ``occurring more 
        than 5 years''.
    (d) Section 2(a)(2)(D)(i) of the Temporary Bankruptcy Judgeships 
Extension Act of 2012 (28 U.S.C. 152 note; Public Law 112-121) is 
amended (with regard to the 1st and 2d vacancies in the southern 
district of Florida) by striking ``5 years'' and inserting ``6 years''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
2017''.

                                TITLE IV

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                             Federal Funds

              federal payment for resident tuition support

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, to be deposited 
into a dedicated account, for a nationwide program to be administered 
by the Mayor, for District of Columbia resident tuition support, 
$20,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
funds, including any interest accrued thereon, may be used on behalf of 
eligible District of Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon the 
difference between in-State and out-of-State tuition at public 
institutions of higher education, or to pay up to $2,500 each year at 
eligible private institutions of higher education: Provided further, 
That the awarding of such funds may be prioritized on the basis of a 
resident's academic merit, the income and need of eligible students and 
such other factors as may be authorized: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia government shall maintain a dedicated account for 
the Resident Tuition Support Program that shall consist of the Federal 
funds appropriated to the Program in this Act and any subsequent 
appropriations, any unobligated balances from prior fiscal years, and 
any interest earned in this or any fiscal year: Provided further, That 
the account shall be under the control of the District of Columbia 
Chief Financial Officer, who shall use those funds solely for the 
purposes of carrying out the Resident Tuition Support Program: Provided 
further, That the Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall provide a 
quarterly financial report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate for these funds showing, by 
object class, the expenditures made and the purpose therefor.

   federal payment for emergency planning and security costs in the 
                          district of columbia

    For a Federal payment of necessary expenses, as determined by the 
Mayor of the District of Columbia in written consultation with the 
elected county or city officials of surrounding jurisdictions, 
$40,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the costs of 
providing public safety at events related to the presence of the 
National Capital in the District of Columbia, including support 
requested by the Director of the United States Secret Service in 
carrying out protective duties under the direction of the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, and for the costs of providing support to respond to 
immediate and specific terrorist threats or attacks in the District of 
Columbia or surrounding jurisdictions.

           federal payment to the district of columbia courts

    For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia Courts, 
$274,541,000 to be allocated as follows: for the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals, $14,303,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is for 
official reception and representation expenses; for the Superior Court 
of the District of Columbia, $124,800,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,500 is for official reception and representation expenses; for the 
District of Columbia Court System, $74,783,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,500 is for official reception and representation expenses; and 
$60,655,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, for capital 
improvements for District of Columbia courthouse facilities: Provided, 
That funds made available for capital improvements shall be expended 
consistent with the District of Columbia Courts master plan study and 
facilities condition assessment: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, all amounts under this heading shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: Provided further, That 
30 days after providing written notice to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
District of Columbia Courts may reallocate not more than $6,000,000 of 
the funds provided under this heading among the items and entities 
funded under this heading: Provided further, That the Joint Committee 
on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia may, by 
regulation, establish a program substantially similar to the program 
set forth in subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, United States 
Code, for employees of the District of Columbia Courts.

   federal payment for defender services in the district of columbia 
                                 courts

    For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 11-2605, 
D.C. Official Code (relating to representation provided under the 
District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act), payments for counsel 
appointed in proceedings in the Family Court of the Superior Court of 
the District of Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official 
Code, or pursuant to contractual agreements to provide guardian ad 
litem representation, training, technical assistance, and such other 
services as are necessary to improve the quality of guardian ad litem 
representation, payments for counsel appointed in adoption proceedings 
under chapter 3 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, and payments 
authorized under section 21-2060, D.C. Official Code (relating to 
services provided under the District of Columbia Guardianship, 
Protective Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986), 
$49,890,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
provided under this heading shall be administered by the Joint 
Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
this appropriation shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of 
Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as 
funds appropriated for expenses of other Federal agencies.

 federal payment to the court services and offender supervision agency 
                      for the district of columbia

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the 
District of Columbia, as authorized by the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, 
$246,386,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 is for official reception 
and representation expenses related to Community Supervision and 
Pretrial Services Agency programs, of which not to exceed $25,000 is 
for dues and assessments relating to the implementation of the Court 
Services and Offender Supervision Agency Interstate Supervision Act of 
2002; of which $182,564,000 shall be for necessary expenses of 
Community Supervision and Sex Offender Registration, to include 
expenses relating to the supervision of adults subject to protection 
orders or the provision of services for or related to such persons; and 
of which $63,822,000 shall be available to the Pretrial Services 
Agency: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, all 
amounts under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office 
of Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner 
as funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal 
agencies: Provided further, That amounts under this heading may be used 
for programmatic incentives for defendants to successfully complete 
their terms of supervision.

  federal payment to the district of columbia public defender service

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the District of Columbia Public Defender Service, as 
authorized by the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
Improvement Act of 1997, $41,359,000: Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, all amounts under this heading shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
salaries and expenses of Federal agencies.

      federal payment to the criminal justice coordinating council

    For a Federal payment to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended, to support initiatives 
related to the coordination of Federal and local criminal justice 
resources in the District of Columbia.

                federal payment for judicial commissions

    For a Federal payment, to remain available until September 30, 
2018, to the Commission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure, $310,000, 
and for the Judicial Nomination Commission, $275,000.

                 federal payment for school improvement

    For a Federal payment for a school improvement program in the 
District of Columbia, $45,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
for payments authorized under the Scholarship for Opportunity and 
Results Act (division C of Public Law 112-10): Provided, That, to the 
extent that funds are available for opportunity scholarships and 
following the priorities included in section 3006 of such Act, the 
Secretary of Education shall make scholarships available to students 
eligible under section 3013(3) of such Act (Public Law 112-10; 125 
Stat. 211) including students who were not offered a scholarship during 
any previous school year: Provided further, That within funds provided 
for opportunity scholarships $3,200,000 shall be for the activities 
specified in sections 3007(b) through 3007(d) and 3009 of the Act.

      federal payment for the district of columbia national guard

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia National Guard, 
$450,000, to remain available until expended for the Major General 
David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Columbia National Guard Retention and 
College Access Program.

         federal payment for testing and treatment of hiv/aids

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for the testing 
of individuals for, and the treatment of individuals with, human 
immunodeficiency virus and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in the 
District of Columbia, $5,000,000.

                       District of Columbia Funds

    Local funds are appropriated for the District of Columbia for the 
current fiscal year out of the General Fund of the District of Columbia 
(``General Fund'') for programs and activities set forth under the 
heading ``Part A--Summary of Expenses'' and at the rate set forth under 
such heading, as included in D.C. Bill 21-668, as amended as of the 
date of the enactment of this Act: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, except as provided in section 450A of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (section 1-204.50a, D.C. Official 
Code), sections 816 and 817 of the Financial Services and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2009 (secs. 47-369.01 and 47-369.02, 
D.C. Official Code), and provisions of this Act, the total amount 
appropriated in this Act for operating expenses for the District of 
Columbia for fiscal year 2017 under this heading shall not exceed the 
estimates included in D.C. Bill 21-668, as amended as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act, or the sum of the total revenues of the 
District of Columbia for such fiscal year: Provided further, That the 
amount appropriated may be increased by proceeds of one-time 
transactions, which are expended for emergency or unanticipated 
operating or capital needs: Provided further, That such increases shall 
be approved by enactment of local District law and shall comply with 
all reserve requirements contained in the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act: Provided further, That the Chief Financial Officer of the 
District of Columbia shall take such steps as are necessary to assure 
that the District of Columbia meets these requirements, including the 
apportioning by the Chief Financial Officer of the appropriations and 
funds made available to the District during fiscal year 2017, except 
that the Chief Financial Officer may not reprogram for operating 
expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, or other obligations 
issued for capital projects: Provided further, That the Fiscal Year 
2017 Local Budget Act is repealed.
    This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2017''.

                                TITLE V

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Administrative Conference of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of the 
United States, authorized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., $3,100,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018, of which not to exceed 
$1,000 is for official reception and representation expenses.

                Bureau Of Consumer Financial Protection

                       administrative provisions

    Sec. 501.  Section 1017(a)(2)(C) of Public Law 111-203 is repealed.
    Sec. 502.  Effective October 1, 2017, notwithstanding section 1017 
of Public Law 111-203--
            (1) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
        shall not transfer amounts specified under such section to the 
        Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection; and
            (2) there are authorized to be appropriated to the Bureau 
        of Consumer Financial Protection such sums as may be necessary 
        to carry out the authorities of the Bureau under Federal 
        consumer financial law.
    Sec. 503. (a) During fiscal year 2017, on the date on which a 
request is made for a transfer of funds in accordance with section 1017 
of Public Law 111-203, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of 
the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs of the Senate of such request.
    (b)(1) Any such notification shall include the amount of the funds 
requested, an explanation of how the funds will be obligated by object 
class and activity, and why the funds are necessary to protect 
consumers.
    (2) Any notification required by this section shall be made 
available on the Bureau's public Web site.
    Sec. 504. (a) Not later than 2 weeks after the end of each quarter 
of each fiscal year, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall 
submit a report on its activities to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on 
Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
    (b) The reports required under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) the obligations made during the previous quarter by 
        object class, office, and activity;
            (2) the estimated obligations for the remainder of the 
        fiscal year by object class, office, and activity;
            (3) the number of full-time equivalents within each office 
        during the previous quarter;
            (4) the estimated number of full-time equivalents within 
        each office for the remainder of the fiscal year; and
            (5) actions taken to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
        performance measures of each office.
    (c) At the request of any committee specified in subsection (a), 
the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall make Bureau officials 
available to testify on the contents of the reports required under 
subsection (a).
    Sec. 505. (a) In General.--Section 1011 of the Consumer Financial 
Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5491) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (b), (c), and (d);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (c); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Management of the Bureau.--
            ``(1) In general.--The management of the Bureau shall be 
        vested in a Board of Directors consisting of 5 members, who 
        shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and 
        consent of the Senate, from among individuals who--
                    ``(A) are citizens of the United States; and
                    ``(B) have developed strong competency and 
                understanding of, and have experience working with, 
                financial products and services.
            ``(2) Terms.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), each member of the Board, including 
                the Chairperson, shall serve for a term of 5 years.
                    ``(B) Staggered terms.--The members of the Board 
                shall serve staggered terms, which shall initially be 
                for terms of 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years, respectively, and 
                such members shall be appointed such that, after the 
                appointments of the initial 5 members of the Board, 
                members of different political parties are appointed 
                alternately.
                    ``(C) Removal.--The President may remove any member 
                of the Board for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or 
                malfeasance in office.
                    ``(D) Vacancies.--Any member of the Board appointed 
                to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of 
                the term to which the predecessor of that member was 
                appointed (including the Chairperson) shall be 
                appointed only for the remainder of the term.
                    ``(E) Continuation of service.--Each member of the 
                Board may continue to serve after the expiration of the 
                term of office to which that member was appointed until 
                a successor has been appointed by the President and 
                confirmed by the Senate, except that a member may not 
                continue to serve more than 1 year after the date on 
                which the term of that member would otherwise expire.
                    ``(F) Successive terms.--A member of the Board may 
                not be reappointed to a second consecutive term, except 
                that an initial member of the Board appointed for less 
                than a 5-year term may be reappointed to a full 5-year 
                term and a future member appointed to fill an unexpired 
                term may be reappointed for a full 5-year term.
            ``(3) Affiliation.--Not more than 3 members of the Board 
        shall be members of any 1 political party.
            ``(4) Chairperson of the board.--
                    ``(A) Appointment.--The President shall appoint 1 
                of the 5 members of the Board to serve as Chairperson 
                of the Board.
                    ``(B) Authority.--The Chairperson shall be the 
                principal executive officer of the Bureau, and shall 
                exercise all of the executive and administrative 
                functions of the Bureau, including with respect to--
                            ``(i) the supervision of personnel employed 
                        by the Bureau (other than personnel employed 
                        regularly and full time in the immediate 
                        offices of members of the Board other than the 
                        Chairperson);
                            ``(ii) the distribution of business among 
                        personnel appointed and supervised by the 
                        Chairperson and among administrative units of 
                        the Bureau; and
                            ``(iii) the use and expenditure of funds.
                    ``(C) Limitation.--In carrying out any of the 
                functions of the Chairperson under this paragraph, the 
                Chairperson shall be governed by general policies of 
                the Bureau and by such regulatory decisions, findings, 
                and determinations as the Bureau may by law be 
                authorized to make.
                    ``(D) Requests or estimates related to 
                appropriations.--Any request or estimate for regular, 
                supplemental, or deficiency appropriations on behalf of 
                the Bureau, including any request for a transfer of 
                funds under section 1017(a), may not be submitted by 
                the Chairperson without the prior approval of the 
                Board.
                    ``(E) Vacancy.--The President may designate a 
                member of the Board to serve as Acting Chairperson in 
                the event of a vacancy in the office of the 
                Chairperson.
            ``(5) Compensation.--
                    ``(A) Chairperson.--The Chairperson shall receive 
                compensation at the rate prescribed for level I of the 
                Executive Schedule under section 5312 of title 5, 
                United States Code.
                    ``(B) Other members of the board.--The 4 members of 
                the Board other than the Chairperson shall each receive 
                compensation at the rate prescribed for level II of the 
                Executive Schedule under section 5313 of title 5, 
                United States Code.
            ``(6) Other employment prohibited.--A member of the Board 
        may not engage in any other business, vocation, or 
        employment.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Consumer financial protection act of 2010.--The 
        Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481 et 
        seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 1002 (12 U.S.C. 5481)--
                            (i) by striking paragraph (10) and 
                        inserting:
            ``(10) Board.--The term `Board' means the Board of 
        Directors of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.''; 
        and
                            (ii) by inserting after paragraph (29) the 
                        following:
            ``(30) Chairperson.--The term `Chairperson' means the 
        Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Bureau of Consumer 
        Financial Protection.'';
                    (B) in section 1012 (12 U.S.C. 5492)--
                            (i) in subsection (a)(8), by striking 
                        ``appointed and supervised by the Director'' 
                        and inserting ``appointed by the Board and 
                        supervised by the Chairperson'';
                            (ii) in subsection (b), by striking 
                        ``Director'' and inserting ``Board''; and
                            (iii) in subsection (c)--
                                    (I) in paragraph (2)(A), by 
                                striking ``Director'' and inserting 
                                ``Board''; and
                                    (II) in paragraph (4), by striking 
                                ``the Director'' each place that term 
                                appears and inserting ``any member of 
                                the Board'';
                    (C) in section 1013 (12 U.S.C. 5493)--
                            (i) in subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e), 
                        by striking ``Director'' each place that term 
                        appears and inserting ``Board'';
                            (ii) in subsection (c)--
                                    (I) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by 
                                striking ``Director'' each place that 
                                term appears and inserting ``Board''; 
                                and
                                    (II) in paragraph (3)--
                                            (aa) by striking 
                                        ``Assistant Director'' each 
                                        place that term appears and 
                                        inserting ``Head of Office''; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) by striking ``the 
                                        Director'' each place that term 
                                        appears and inserting ``the 
                                        Board'';
                            (iii) in subsection (g)--
                                    (I) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                                ``Director'' and inserting ``Board''; 
                                and
                                    (II) in paragraph (2)--
                                            (aa) in the paragraph 
                                        heading, by striking 
                                        ``Assistant director'' and 
                                        inserting ``Head of the 
                                        office''; and
                                            (bb) by striking ``an 
                                        assistant director'' and 
                                        inserting ``the Head of the 
                                        Office of Financial Protection 
                                        for Older Americans'';
                    (D) in section 1014 (12 U.S.C. 5494), by striking 
                ``Director'' each place that term appears and inserting 
                ``Board'';
                    (E) in section 1016(a) (12 U.S.C. 5496(a)), by 
                striking ``Director of the Bureau'' and inserting 
                ``Chairperson'';
                    (F) in section 1017--
                            (i) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                                ``Director'' and inserting ``Board'';
                                    (II) in paragraph (4)--
                                            (aa) in subparagraph (A)--

                                                    (AA) by striking 
                                                ``Director shall'' and 
                                                inserting ``Board 
                                                shall'';

                                                    (BB) by striking 
                                                ``Director,'' and 
                                                inserting ``Board,''; 
                                                and

                                                    (CC) by striking 
                                                ``Director in'' each 
                                                place that term appears 
                                                and inserting ``Board 
                                                in'';

                                            (bb) in subparagraph (D), 
                                        by striking ``Director'' and 
                                        inserting ``Board''; and
                                            (cc) in subparagraph (E), 
                                        by striking ``Director to'' and 
                                        inserting ``Board to''; and
                                    (III) in paragraph (5)(C), by 
                                striking ``Director of the Bureau'' and 
                                inserting ``Chairperson'';
                            (ii) in subsection (c)(1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``Director,'' and 
                                inserting ``Board,''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``Director and'' 
                                and inserting ``the members of the 
                                Board and''; and
                            (iii) in subsection (e), by striking 
                        ``Director'' each place that term appears and 
                        inserting ``Board'';
                    (G) in subtitles B (12 U.S.C. 5511 et seq.), C (12 
                U.S.C. 5531 et seq.), and G (12 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), 
                by striking ``Director'' each place that term appears 
                and inserting ``Board'';
                    (H) in section 1061(c)(2)(C)(i) (12 U.S.C. 
                5581(c)(2)(C)(i)), by striking ``the Board'' and 
                inserting ``the National Credit Union Administration 
                Board''; and
                    (I) in section 1066(a) (12 U.S.C. 5586(a)), by 
                inserting ``first'' before ``Director''.
            (2) Financial stability act of 2010.--Section 111(b)(1)(D) 
        of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 
        5321(b)(1)(D)) is amended by striking ``Director of the 
        Bureau'' and inserting ``Chairperson of the Board of Directors 
        of the Bureau''.
            (3) Mortgage reform and anti-predatory lending act.--
        Section 1447 of the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending 
        Act (12 U.S.C. 1701p-2) is amended by striking ``Director'' 
        each place the term appears and inserting ``Board of 
        Directors''.
            (4) Electronic fund transfer act.--Section 920(a)(4)(C) of 
        the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693o-2(a)(4)(C)) 
        is amended by striking ``Director of the Bureau'' and inserting 
        ``Board of Directors of the Bureau''.
            (5) Expedited funds availability act.--The Expedited Funds 
        Availability Act (12 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.) is amended by 
        striking ``Director of the Bureau'' each place that term 
        appears and inserting ``Board of Directors of the Bureau''.
            (6) Federal deposit insurance act.--Section 2 of the 
        Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1812) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Director of the Consumer 
                Financial Protection Bureau'' each place that term 
                appears and inserting ``Chairperson of the Board of 
                Directors of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
                Protection''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ``Comptroller 
                or Director'' and inserting ``Comptroller or 
                Chairperson''.
            (7) Federal financial institutions examination council act 
        of 1978.--Section 1004(a)(4) of the Federal Financial 
        Institutions Examination Council Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 
        3303(a)(4)) is amended by striking ``Director of the Consumer 
        Financial Protection Bureau'' and inserting ``Chairperson of 
        the Board of Directors of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
        Protection''.
            (8) Financial literacy and education improvement act.--
        Section 513 of the Financial Literacy and Education Improvement 
        Act (20 U.S.C. 9702) is amended by striking ``Director'' each 
        place that term appears and inserting ``Chairperson of the 
        Board of Directors''.
            (9) Home mortgage disclosure act of 1975.--Section 307 of 
        the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2806) is 
        amended by striking ``Director of the Bureau of Consumer'' each 
        place that term appears and inserting ``Board of Directors of 
        the Bureau of Consumer''.
            (10) Interstate land sales full disclosure act.--The 
        Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act (15 U.S.C. 1701 et 
        seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 1402(1) (15 U.S.C. 1701(1)), by 
                striking ```Director' means the Director'' and 
                inserting ```Board' means the Board of Directors'';
                    (B) by striking ``Director'' each place that term 
                appears and inserting ``Board'';
                    (C) in section 1403(c) (15 U.S.C. 1702(c))--
                            (i) by striking ``by him'' and inserting 
                        ``by the Board''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``he'' and inserting ``the 
                        Board'';
                    (D) in section 1407 (15 U.S.C. 1706)--
                            (i) in subsection (c), by striking ``he'' 
                        and inserting ``the Board''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (e), by striking ``him'' 
                        and inserting ``the Board'';
                    (E) in section 1411 (15 U.S.C. 1710)--
                            (i) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) by striking ``his findings'' 
                                and inserting ``its finding''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``his 
                                recommendation'' and inserting ``a 
                                recommendation''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b), by striking 
                        ``Secretary's order'' and inserting ``order of 
                        the Board'';
                    (F) in section 1415 (15 U.S.C. 1714)--
                            (i) by striking ``him'' each place that 
                        term appears and inserting ``the Board'';
                            (ii) in subsection (a), by striking ``he 
                        may, in his discretion'' and inserting ``the 
                        Board may, at the discretion of the Board'';
                            (iii) in subsection (b), by striking ``he'' 
                        each time that term appears and inserting ``the 
                        Board''; and
                            (iv) by striking ``in his discretion'' each 
                        time that term appears and inserting ``at the 
                        discretion of the Board'';
                    (G) in section 1416(a) (15 U.S.C. 1715(a))--
                            (i) by striking ``of the Bureau of Consumer 
                        Financial Protection'' the first time that term 
                        appears;
                            (ii) by striking ``his functions, duties, 
                        and powers'' and inserting ``the functions, 
                        duties, and powers of the Board'';
                            (iii) by striking ``his administrative law 
                        judges'' and inserting ``the administrative law 
                        judges of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
                        Protection''; and
                            (iv) by striking ``himself'' and inserting 
                        ``the Board'';
                    (H)(i) in section 1418a(b)(4) (15 U.S.C. 
                1717a(b)(4)), by striking ``The Secretary's 
                determination or order'' and inserting ``A 
                determination or order of the Board''; and
                    (ii) in section 1418a(d) (15 U.S.C. 1717a(d)), by 
                striking ``the Secretary's determination or order'' and 
                inserting ``a determination or order of the Board'';
                    (I) in section 1419 (15 U.S.C. 1718)--
                            (i) by striking ``him'' and inserting ``the 
                        Board'';
                            (ii) by striking ``his rules and 
                        regulations'' and inserting ``the rules and 
                        regulations of the Board''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``his jurisdiction'' and 
                        inserting ``the jurisdiction of the Bureau of 
                        Consumer Financial Protection''; and
                    (J) in section 1420 (15 U.S.C. 1719)--
                            (i) by inserting ``or any member of the 
                        Board'' before ``in any proceeding''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``him'' and inserting 
                        ``the Board or any member of the Board''.
            (11) Real estate settlement procedures act of 1974.--
        Section 5 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 
        (12 U.S.C. 2604) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Director of'' and inserting 
                ``Board of Directors of''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Director'' each place that term 
                appears and inserting ``Board''.
            (12) S.A.F.E. mortgage licensing act of 2008.--The S.A.F.E. 
        Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in section 1503(10) (12 U.S.C. 5102(10))--
                            (i) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                        ``Director'' and inserting ``Board''; and
                            (ii) by striking ```Director' means the 
                        Director'' and inserting ```Board' means the 
                        Board of Directors'';
                    (B) by striking ``Director'' each place that term 
                appears and inserting ``Board'';
                    (C) in section 1514(b)(5) (12 U.S.C. 5113(b)(5)), 
                by striking ``Secretary's expenses'' and inserting 
                ``expenses of the Board'';
                    (D) in section 1514(c)(4)(C) (12 U.S.C. 
                5113(c)(4)(C)), by striking ``Secretary's'' and 
                inserting ``Board's'';
                    (E) in the headings of section 1514(c)(1), 
                (c)(4)(A), and (c)(5), by striking ``director'' and 
                inserting ``board''; and
                    (F) in the heading of section 1514(d), by striking 
                ``Director'' and inserting ``Board''.
            (13) Title 44.--Section 3513(c) of title 44, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking ``Director of the Bureau'' and 
        inserting ``Board of Directors of the Bureau''.
    (c) References.--Any reference in a law, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the Director of the 
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall be deemed a reference to 
the Board of Directors of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, 
unless otherwise specified in this Act.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2017; or
            (2) the date on which not less than 3 persons have been 
        confirmed by the Senate to serve as members of the Board of 
        Directors of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
    Sec. 506.  None of the funds made available in this Act or 
transferred to the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection pursuant to 
section 1017 of Public law 111-203 may be used to regulate pre-dispute 
arbitration agreements (as described in section 1028 of Public Law 111-
203) and any regulation finalized by the Bureau to regulate pre-dispute 
arbitration agreements shall have no legal force or effect until the 
requirements regarding pre-dispute arbitration specified in the report 
accompanying this Act under the heading ``Bureau of Consumer Financial 
Protection,'' are fulfilled.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
purchase of nominal awards to recognize non-Federal officials' 
contributions to Commission activities, and not to exceed $4,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $121,300,000, of which 
$1,000,000 shall be available for the advisory committees in the report 
accompanying this Act under the heading ``Consumer Product Safety 
Commission'', and of which $1,300,000 shall remain available until 
expended to carry out the program, including administrative costs, 
required by section 1405 of the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa 
Safety Act (Public Law 110-140; 15 U.S.C. 8004).

      administrative provision--consumer product safety commission

    Sec. 510.  During fiscal year 2017, none of the amounts made 
available by this Act may be used to finalize or implement the Safety 
Standard for Recreational Off-Highway Vehicles published by the 
Consumer Product Safety Commission in the Federal Register on November 
19, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 68964) until after--
            (1) the National Academy of Sciences, in consultation with 
        the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the 
        Department of Defense, completes a study to determine--
                    (A) the technical validity of the lateral stability 
                and vehicle handling requirements proposed by such 
                standard for purposes of reducing the risk of 
                Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle (referred to in this 
                section as ``ROV'') rollovers in the off-road 
                environment, including the repeatability and 
                reproducibility of testing for compliance with such 
                requirements;
                    (B) the number of ROV rollovers that would be 
                prevented if the proposed requirements were adopted;
                    (C) whether there is a technical basis for the 
                proposal to provide information on a point-of-sale 
                hangtag about a ROV's rollover resistance on a 
                progressive scale; and
                    (D) the effect on the utility of ROVs used by the 
                United States military if the proposed requirements 
                were adopted; and
            (2) a report containing the results of the study completed 
        under paragraph (1) is delivered to--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; 
                and
                    (D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.

                     Election Assistance Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (Public Law 107-252), $4,900,000.

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not to exceed $4,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; purchase and hire of motor 
vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $314,844,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
$314,844,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed and collected 
pursuant to section 9 of title I of the Communications Act of 1934, 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses and shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2017 so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2017 appropriation estimated at $0: Provided further, That any 
offsetting collections received in excess of $314,844,000 in fiscal 
year 2017 shall not be available for obligation: Provided further, That 
remaining offsetting collections from prior years collected in excess 
of the amount specified for collection in each such year and otherwise 
becoming available on October 1, 2016, shall not be available for 
obligation: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 47 U.S.C. 
309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from the use of a competitive bidding system 
that may be retained and made available for obligation shall not exceed 
$106,000,000 for fiscal year 2017: Provided further, That, of the 
amount appropriated under this heading, not less than $11,751,000 shall 
be for the salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General.

                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                    office of the inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$35,958,000, to be derived from the Deposit Insurance Fund or, only 
when appropriate, the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, $80,540,000, of which $8,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018, for lease expiration and 
replacement lease expenses; and of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be 
available for reception and representation expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, $26,631,000, including 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts and 
consultants, hire of passenger motor vehicles and rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; and of which not to 
exceed $1,500 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided, That public members of the Federal 
Service Impasses Panel may be paid travel expenses and per diem in lieu 
of subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons 
employed intermittently in the Government service, and compensation as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees charged to non-Federal 
participants at labor-management relations conferences shall be 
credited to and merged with this account, to be available without 
further appropriation for the costs of carrying out these conferences.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $317,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available for 
use to contract with a person or persons for collection services in 
accordance with the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $125,000,000 
of offsetting collections derived from fees collected for premerger 
notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements 
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $15,000,000 in offsetting collections 
derived from fees sufficient to implement and enforce the Telemarketing 
Sales Rule, promulgated under the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and 
Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be credited to 
this account, and be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from 
the general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2017, so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 2017 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
than $177,000,000: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the Federal Trade Commission may be used to implement 
subsection (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1831t).

                    General Services Administration

                        real property activities

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Amounts in the Fund, including revenues and collections deposited 
into the Fund, shall be available for necessary expenses of real 
property management and related activities not otherwise provided for, 
including operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and 
leased buildings; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; 
restoration of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including 
space adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) in 
connection with the assignment, allocation, and transfer of space; 
contractual services incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and 
moving; repair and alteration of federally owned buildings, including 
grounds, approaches, and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise 
authorized by law; acquisition of options to purchase buildings and 
sites; conversion and extension of federally owned buildings; 
preliminary planning and design of projects by contract or otherwise; 
construction of new buildings (including equipment for such buildings); 
and payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for 
public buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase 
contract; in the aggregate amount of $9,244,808,000, of which--
            (1) $504,918,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        construction and acquisition (including funds for sites and 
        expenses, and associated design and construction services) as 
        follows:
                    (A) National Capital Region, FBI Headquarters 
                Consolidation, $200,000,000;
                    (B) California, Calexico, Calexico West Land Port 
                of Entry, $248,213,000;
                    (C) District of Columbia, Washington, Southeast 
                Federal Center Remediation, $7,000,000;
                    (D) Pembina, North Dakota, United States Department 
                of Agriculture (USDA) Animal and Plant Health 
                Inspection Service (APHIS), $5,749,000;
                    (E) Boyers, Pennsylvania, Federal Office Building, 
                $31,200,000; and
                    (F) Austin, Texas, Internal Revenue Service (IRS) 
                Annex Building, $12,756,000:
         Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of costs on new 
        construction and acquisition projects may be exceeded to the 
        extent that savings are effected in other such projects, but 
        not to exceed 10 percent of the amounts included in a 
        transmitted prospectus, if required, unless advance approval is 
        obtained from the Committees on Appropriations of a greater 
        amount;
            (2) $758,790,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        repairs and alterations, including associated design and 
        construction services, of which--
                    (A) $300,000,000 is for Major Repairs and 
                Alterations;
                    (B) $312,090,000 is for Basic Repairs and 
                Alterations; and
                    (C) $146,700,000 is for Special Emphasis Programs, 
                of which--
                            (i) $20,000,000 is for Fire and Life 
                        Safety;
                            (ii) $26,700,000 is for Judiciary Capital 
                        Security;
                            (iii) $100,000,000 is for Consolidation 
                        Activities: Provided, That consolidation 
                        projects result in reduced annual rent paid by 
                        the tenant agency: Provided further, That no 
                        consolidation project exceed $10,000,000 in 
                        costs: Provided further, That consolidation 
                        projects are approved by each of the committees 
                        specified in section 3307(a) of title 40, 
                        United States Code: Provided further, That 
                        preference is given to consolidation projects 
                        that achieve a utilization rate of 130 usable 
                        square feet or less per person for office 
                        space: Provided further, That the obligation of 
                        funds under this paragraph for consolidation 
                        activities may not be made until 10 days after 
                        a proposed spending plan and explanation for 
                        each project to be undertaken, including 
                        estimated savings, has been submitted to the 
                        Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
                        Representatives and the Senate:
         Provided, That funds made available in this or any previous 
        Act in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations 
        shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount 
        identified for each project, except each project in this or any 
        previous Act may be increased by an amount not to exceed 10 
        percent unless advance approval is obtained from the Committees 
        on Appropriations of a greater amount: Provided further, That 
        additional projects for which prospectuses have been fully 
        approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
        approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations: 
        Provided further, That the amounts provided in this or any 
        prior Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund 
        costs associated with implementing security improvements to 
        buildings necessary to meet the minimum standards for security 
        in accordance with current law and in compliance with the 
        reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate Committees of the 
        House and Senate: Provided further, That the difference between 
        the funds appropriated and expended on any projects in this or 
        any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'', 
        may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations or used to 
        fund authorized increases in prospectus projects: Provided 
        further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for 
        Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against 
        the Government arising from any projects under the heading 
        ``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund authorized 
        increases in prospectus projects;
            (3) $5,645,000,000 for rental of space to remain available 
        until expended; and
            (4) $2,336,100,000 for building operations to remain 
        available until expended, of which $1,184,790,000 is for 
        building services, and $1,151,310,000 is for salaries and 
        expenses: Provided, That not to exceed 5 percent of any 
        appropriation made available under this paragraph for building 
        operations may be transferred between and merged with such 
        appropriations upon notification to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, 
        but no such appropriation shall be increased by more than 5 
        percent by any such transfers:  Provided further, That section 
        521 of this title shall not apply with respect to funds made 
        available under this heading for building operations: Provided 
        further, That the total amount of funds made available from 
        this Fund to the General Services Administration shall not be 
        available for expenses of any construction, repair, alteration 
        and acquisition project for which a prospectus, if required by 
        40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has not been approved, except that necessary 
        funds may be expended for each project for required expenses 
        for the development of a proposed prospectus: Provided further, 
        That funds available in the Federal Buildings Fund may be 
        expended for emergency repairs when advance approval is 
        obtained from the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
        further, That amounts necessary to provide reimbursable special 
        services to other agencies under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and 
        amounts to provide such reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard 
        booths, and other facilities on private or other property not 
        in Government ownership or control as may be appropriate to 
        enable the United States Secret Service to perform its 
        protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, shall be 
        available from such revenues and collections: Provided further, 
        That revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to 
        this Fund during fiscal year 2017, excluding reimbursements 
        under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2), in excess of the aggregate new 
        obligational authority authorized for Real Property Activities 
        of the Federal Buildings Fund in this Act shall remain in the 
        Fund and shall not be available for expenditure except as 
        authorized in appropriations Acts.

                           general activities

                         government-wide policy

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and evaluation activities associated with the 
management of real and personal property assets and certain 
administrative services; Government-wide policy support 
responsibilities relating to acquisition, travel, motor vehicles, 
information technology management, and related technology activities; 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $58,000,000, of which 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018.

                           operating expenses

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide activities associated with utilization and donation of 
surplus personal property; disposal of real property; agency-wide 
policy direction, management, and communications; and services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $47,966,000, of which $24,569,000 is for 
Real and Personal Property Management and Disposal and $23,397,000 is 
for the Office of the Administrator, of which not to exceed $7,500 is 
for official reception and representation expenses.

                   civilian board of contract appeals

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
activities associated with the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals and 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $9,275,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $65,000,000, of which $2,000,000 
is available until September 30, 2018: Provided, That not to exceed 
$50,000 shall be available for payment for information and detection of 
fraud against the Government, including payment for recovery of stolen 
Government property: Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500 shall 
be available for awards to employees of other Federal agencies and 
private citizens in recognition of efforts and initiatives resulting in 
enhanced Office of Inspector General effectiveness.

           allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958 (3 
U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $1,932,000.

                   expenses, presidential transition

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Presidential Transition Act 
of 1963 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), $9,500,000, of which not to exceed 
$1,000,000 is for activities authorized by paragraphs (8) and (9) of 
section 3(a) of the Act: Provided, That such amounts may be transferred 
to the ``Acquisition Services Fund'' or ``Federal Buildings Fund'' to 
reimburse obligations incurred prior to the date of enactment of this 
Act for the purposes provided herein related to the Presidential 
election in 2016: Provided further, That amounts available under this 
heading shall be in addition to any other amounts available for such 
purposes.

                     federal citizen services fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Citizen Services and 
Innovative Technologies, including services authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 
and 44 U.S.C. 3604; and for necessary expenses in support of 
interagency projects that enable the Federal Government to enhance its 
ability to conduct activities electronically, through the development 
and implementation of innovative uses of information technology; 
$55,894,000, to be deposited into the Federal Citizen Services Fund: 
Provided, That the previous amount may be transferred to Federal 
agencies to carry out the purpose of the Federal Citizen Services Fund: 
Provided further, That the appropriations, revenues, reimbursements, 
and collections deposited into the Fund shall be available until 
expended for necessary expenses of Federal Citizen Services and other 
activities that enable the Federal Government to enhance its ability to 
conduct activities electronically in the aggregate amount not to exceed 
$150,000,000: Provided further, That appropriations, revenues, 
reimbursements, and collections accruing to this Fund during fiscal 
year 2017 in excess of such amount shall remain in the Fund and shall 
not be available for expenditure except as authorized in appropriations 
Acts: Provided further, That any appropriations provided to the 
Electronic Government Fund that remain unobligated may be transferred 
to the Federal Citizen Services Fund: Provided further, That the 
transfer authorities provided herein shall be in addition to any other 
transfer authority provided in this Act.

       administrative provisions--general services administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 520.  Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 521.  Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 2017 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall 
be approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 522.  Except as otherwise provided in this title, funds made 
available by this Act shall be used to transmit a fiscal year 2018 
request for United States Courthouse construction only if the request: 
(1) meets the design guide standards for construction as established 
and approved by the General Services Administration, the Judicial 
Conference of the United States, and the Office of Management and 
Budget; (2) reflects the priorities of the Judicial Conference of the 
United States as set out in its approved 5-year construction plan; and 
(3) includes a standardized courtroom utilization study of each 
facility to be constructed, replaced, or expanded.
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in consideration of the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 524.  From funds made available under the heading Federal 
Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of Revenue, claims against 
the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct construction 
projects and acquisition of buildings may be liquidated from savings 
effected in other construction projects with prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.
    Sec. 525.  In any case in which the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate adopt a resolution granting 
lease authority pursuant to a prospectus transmitted to Congress by the 
Administrator of the General Services Administration under 40 U.S.C. 
3307, the Administrator shall ensure that the delineated area of 
procurement is identical to the delineated area included in the 
prospectus for all lease agreements, except that, if the Administrator 
determines that the delineated area of the procurement should not be 
identical to the delineated area included in the prospectus, the 
Administrator shall provide an explanatory statement to each of such 
committees and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate prior to exercising any lease authority 
provided in the resolution.
    Sec. 526.  With respect to each project funded under the heading 
``Major Repairs and Alterations'' or ``Judiciary Capital Security 
Program'', and with respect to E-Government projects funded under the 
heading ``Federal Citizen Services Fund'', the Administrator of General 
Services shall submit a spending plan and explanation for each project 
to be undertaken to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 527.  Strike subsection (d) of section 3173 of title 40, 
United States Code.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, and the Whistleblower Protection 
Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 note), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, direct procurement of 
survey printing, and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $44,786,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018, and in addition not to exceed $2,345,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018, for administrative expenses to 
adjudicate retirement appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund in amounts determined by the Merit 
Systems Protection Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives and Records Administration and archived Federal 
records and related activities, as provided by law, and for expenses 
necessary for the review and declassification of documents, the 
activities of the Public Interest Declassification Board, the 
operations and maintenance of the electronic records archives, the hire 
of passenger motor vehicles, and for uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, 
and cleaning, $380,634,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Reform Act of 
2008, Public Law 110-409, 122 Stat. 4302-16 (2008), and the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), and for the hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $4,801,000.

                        repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $7,500,000, to remain 
available until expended.

         national historical publications and records commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, $6,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                  National Credit Union Administration

               community development revolving loan fund

    For the Community Development Revolving Loan Fund program as 
authorized by 42 U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $2,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2018, for technical assistance to low-
income designated credit unions.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, the 
Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the Stop Trading on Congressional 
Knowledge Act of 2012, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 
for official reception and representation expenses, $16,090,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management (OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 
of 1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of OPM and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for expenses 
incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as 
amended; and payment of per diem or subsistence allowances to employees 
where Voting Rights Act activities require an employee to remain 
overnight at his or her post of duty, $144,867,000: Provided, That of 
the total amount made available under this heading, not to exceed 
$37,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018, for the 
operation and strengthening of the security of OPM legacy and Shell 
environment IT systems and the modernization, migration, and testing of 
such systems: Provided further, That the amount made available by the 
previous proviso may not be obligated until the Director of the Office 
of Personnel Management submits to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives a plan for expenditure of 
such amount, prepared in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, the Administrator of the United States 
Digital Service, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, that--
            (1) identifies the full scope and cost of the IT systems 
        remediation and stabilization project;
            (2) meets the capital planning and investment control 
        review requirements established by the Office of Management and 
        Budget, including Circular A-11, part 7;
            (3) includes a Major IT Business Case under the 
        requirements established by the Office of Management and Budget 
        Exhibit 300;
            (4) complies with the acquisition rules, requirements, 
        guidelines, and systems acquisition management practices of the 
        Government;
            (5) complies with all Office of Management and Budget, 
        Department of Homeland Security and National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology requirements related to securing the 
        agency's information system as described in 44 U.S.C. 3554; and
            (6) is reviewed and commented upon by the Inspector General 
        of the Office of Personnel Management, and such comments are 
        submitted to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management 
        before the date of such submission:
 Provided further, That, not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report that--
            (A) evaluates--
                    (i) the steps taken by the Office of Personnel 
                Management to prevent, mitigate, and respond to data 
                breaches involving sensitive personnel records and 
                information;
                    (ii) the Office's cybersecurity policies and 
                procedures in place on the date of enactment of this 
                Act, including policies and procedures relating to IT 
                best practices such as data encryption, multifactor 
                authentication, and continuous monitoring;
                    (iii) the Office's oversight of contractors 
                providing IT services; and
                    (iv) the Office's compliance with government-wide 
                initiatives to improve cybersecurity; and
            (B) sets forth improvements that could be made to assist 
        the Office of Personnel Management in addressing cybersecurity 
        challenges:
 Provided further, That of the total amount made available under this 
heading, $391,000 may be made available for strengthening the capacity 
and capabilities of the acquisition workforce (as defined by the Office 
of Federal Procurement Policy Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. 4001 et 
seq.)), including the recruitment, hiring, training, and retention of 
such workforce and information technology in support of acquisition 
workforce effectiveness or for management solutions to improve 
acquisition management; and in addition $141,611,000 for administrative 
expenses, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds of OPM 
without regard to other statutes, including direct procurement of 
printed materials, for the retirement and insurance programs: Provided 
further, That the provisions of this appropriation shall not affect the 
authority to use applicable trust funds as provided by sections 
8348(a)(1)(B), 8958(f)(2)(A), 8988(f)(2)(A), and 9004(f)(2)(A) of title 
5, United States Code: Provided further, That no part of this 
appropriation shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal 
Examining Unit of OPM established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 
of July 1, 1943, or any successor unit of like purpose: Provided 
further, That the President's Commission on White House Fellows, 
established by Executive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, 
during fiscal year 2017, accept donations of money, property, and 
personal services: Provided further, That such donations, including 
those from prior years, may be used for the development of publicity 
materials to provide information about the White House Fellows, except 
that no such donations shall be accepted for travel or reimbursement of 
travel expenses, or for the salaries of employees of such Commission.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $5,072,000, and in addition, not to exceed $26,662,000 
for administrative expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other 
oversight of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds 
of the Office of Personnel Management, as determined by the Inspector 
General: Provided, That the Inspector General is authorized to rent 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12) as amended by Public Law 
107-304, the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 (Public 
Law 112-199), and the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment 
Rights Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-353), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses for 
witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; $25,735,000.

                      Postal Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Postal Regulatory Commission in 
carrying out the provisions of the Postal Accountability and 
Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435), $16,200,000, to be derived by 
transfer from the Postal Service Fund and expended as authorized by 
section 603(a) of such Act.

              Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight 
Board, as authorized by section 1061 of the Intelligence Reform and 
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C. 2000ee), $8,297,000.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $1,555,000,000, to remain available until 
expended; of which not less than $14,700,000 shall be for the Office of 
Inspector General; of which not to exceed $75,000 shall be available 
for a permanent secretariat for the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions; of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be 
available for expenses for consultations and meetings hosted by the 
Commission with foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, 
members of their delegations and staffs to exchange views concerning 
securities matters, such expenses to include necessary logistic and 
administrative expenses and the expenses of Commission staff and 
foreign invitees in attendance including: (1) incidental expenses such 
as meals; (2) travel and transportation; and (3) related lodging or 
subsistence; of which funding for information technology initiatives 
shall be increased over the fiscal year 2016 level by not less than 
$50,000,000; and of which not less than $72,049,000 shall be for the 
Division of Economic and Risk Analysis: Provided, That fees and charges 
authorized by section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
U.S.C. 78ee) shall be credited to this account as offsetting 
collections: Provided further, That not to exceed $1,555,000,000 of 
such offsetting collections shall be available until expended for 
necessary expenses of this account: Provided further, That the total 
amount appropriated under this heading from the general fund for fiscal 
year 2017 shall be reduced as such offsetting fees are received so as 
to result in a final total fiscal year 2017 appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at not more than $0.

                        Selective Service System

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian employees; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed 
$750 for official reception and representation expenses; $22,703,000: 
Provided, That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt 
this appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever the 
President deems such action to be necessary in the interest of national 
defense: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this 
Act may be expended for or in connection with the induction of any 
person into the Armed Forces of the United States.

                     Small Business Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration, including hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of title 31, United States Code, 
and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $268,000,000, of which not less than $12,000,000 shall be 
available for examinations, reviews, and other lender oversight 
activities: Provided, That the Administrator is authorized to charge 
fees to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small Business 
Administration, and certain loan program activities, including fees 
authorized by section 5(b) of the Small Business Act: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received from all such 
activities shall be credited to this account, to remain available until 
expended, for carrying out these purposes without further 
appropriations:  Provided further, That the Small Business 
Administration may accept gifts in an amount not to exceed $4,000,000 
and may co-sponsor activities, each in accordance with section 132(a) 
of division K of Public Law 108-447, during fiscal year 2017: Provided 
further, That $6,100,000 shall be available for the Loan Modernization 
and Accounting System, to be available until September 30, 2018.

                  entrepreneurial development programs

    For necessary expenses of programs supporting entrepreneurial and 
small business development, $243,100,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018: Provided, That $125,000,000 shall be available to 
fund grants for performance in fiscal year 2017 or fiscal year 2018 as 
authorized by section 21 of the Small Business Act: Provided further, 
That $31,000,000 shall be for marketing, management, and technical 
assistance under section 7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that make microloans under the microloan 
program: Provided further, That $20,000,000 shall be available for 
grants to States to carry out export programs that assist small 
business concerns authorized under section 1207 of Public Law 111-240.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$19,900,000.

                           office of advocacy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Advocacy in carrying out 
the provisions of title II of Public Law 94-305 (15 U.S.C. 634a et 
seq.) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et 
seq.), $9,320,000, to remain available until expended.

                     business loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $4,338,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That subject to section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2017 
commitments to guarantee loans under section 503 of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed $7,500,000,000: Provided 
further, That during fiscal year 2017 commitments for general business 
loans authorized under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act shall not 
exceed $28,500,000,000 for a combination of amortizing term loans and 
the aggregated maximum line of credit provided by revolving loans: 
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2017 commitments for loans 
authorized under subparagraph (C) of section 502(7) of the Small 
Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 696(7)) shall not exceed 
$7,500,000,000: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2017 
commitments to guarantee loans for debentures under section 303(b) of 
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed 
$4,000,000,000: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2017, 
guarantees of trust certificates authorized by section 5(g) of the 
Small Business Act shall not exceed a principal amount of 
$12,000,000,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out 
the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $152,726,000, which may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and 
Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by section 7(b) of the Small Business Act, $185,977,000, to 
be available until expended, of which $1,000,000 is for the Office of 
Inspector General of the Small Business Administration for audits and 
reviews of disaster loans and the disaster loan programs and shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for the Office of 
Inspector General; of which $175,977,000 is for direct administrative 
expenses of loan making and servicing to carry out the direct loan 
program, which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriations 
for Salaries and Expenses; and of which $9,000,000 is for indirect 
administrative expenses for the direct loan program, which may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and 
Expenses.

        administrative provisions--small business administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

                         (including rescission)

    Sec. 530.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Small Business 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by more 
than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 608 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.
    Sec. 531. (a) None of the funds made available under this Act may 
be used to collect a guarantee fee under section 7(a)(18) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(18)) with respect to a loan guaranteed 
under section 7(a)(31) of such Act that is made to a small business 
concern (as defined under section 3 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 632)) that 
is 51 percent or more owned and controlled by 1 or more individuals who 
is a veteran (as defined in section 101 of title 38, United States 
Code) or the spouse of a veteran.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the 
authority of the Administrator of the Small Business Administration to 
waive such a guarantee fee or any other loan fee with respect to a loan 
to a small business concern described in subsection (a) or any other 
borrower.
    Sec. 532.  Of the unobligated balances available for the Certified 
Development Company Program under section 503 of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958, as amended, $55,000,000 are hereby permanently 
rescinded: Provided, That no amounts may be so rescinded from amounts 
that were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      United States Postal Service

                   payment to the postal service fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $41,151,000: Provided, That mail 
for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to be free: 
Provided further, That 6-day delivery and rural delivery of mail shall 
continue at not less than the 1983 level: Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available to the Postal Service by this Act shall be 
used to implement any rule, regulation, or policy of charging any 
officer or employee of any State or local child support enforcement 
agency, or any individual participating in a State or local program of 
child support enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided 
concerning an address of a postal customer: Provided further, That none 
of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or close 
small rural and other small post offices: Provided further, That the 
Postal Service shall maintain and comply with service standards for 
First Class Mail and periodicals effective on July 1, 2012.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$258,000,000, to be derived by transfer from the Postal Service Fund 
and expended as authorized by section 603(b)(3) of the Postal 
Accountability and Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435).

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $51,300,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.

                                TITLE VI

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

                         (including rescission)

    Sec. 601.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 602.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 603.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 605.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, 
or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
    Sec. 606.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with chapter 83 of title 41, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 607.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    Sec. 608.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the agencies or entities funded in this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2017, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees and 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) 
creates a new program; (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity; 
(3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, or activity 
for which funds have been denied or restricted by the Congress; (4) 
proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity by the Committee 
on Appropriations of either the House of Representatives or the Senate 
for a different purpose; (5) augments existing programs, projects, or 
activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; 
(6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by $5,000,000 or 
10 percent, whichever is less; or (7) creates or reorganizes offices, 
programs, or activities unless prior approval is received from the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate: Provided, That prior to any significant reorganization or 
restructuring of offices, programs, or activities, each agency or 
entity funded in this Act shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided 
further, That not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, each agency funded by this Act shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate to establish the baseline for application of reprogramming and 
transfer authorities for the current fiscal year: Provided further, 
That at a minimum the report shall include: (1) a table for each 
appropriation with a separate column to display the President's budget 
request, adjustments made by Congress, adjustments due to enacted 
rescissions, if appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level; (2) a 
delineation in the table for each appropriation both by object class 
and program, project, and activity as detailed in the budget appendix 
for the respective appropriation; and (3) an identification of items of 
special congressional interest: Provided further, That the amount 
appropriated or limited for salaries and expenses for an agency shall 
be reduced by $100,000 per day for each day after the required date 
that the report has not been submitted to the Congress.
    Sec. 609.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2017 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2017 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2018, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate for approval prior to the expenditure of such funds: Provided 
further, That these requests shall be made in compliance with 
reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 610. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used by the Executive Office of the President to request--
            (1) any official background investigation report on any 
        individual from the Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
            (2) a determination with respect to the treatment of an 
        organization as described in section 501(c) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 
        501(a) of such Code from the Department of the Treasury or the 
        Internal Revenue Service.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply--
            (1) in the case of an official background investigation 
        report, if such individual has given express written consent 
        for such request not more than 6 months prior to the date of 
        such request and during the same presidential administration; 
        or
            (2) if such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.
    Sec. 611.  The cost accounting standards promulgated under chapter 
15 of title 41, United States Code shall not apply with respect to a 
contract under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program 
established under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 612.  For the purpose of resolving litigation and implementing 
any settlement agreements regarding the nonforeign area cost-of-living 
allowance program, the Office of Personnel Management may accept and 
utilize (without regard to any restriction on unanticipated travel 
expenses imposed in an Appropriations Act) funds made available to the 
Office of Personnel Management pursuant to court approval.
    Sec. 613.  No funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to 
pay for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in connection with 
any health plan under the Federal employees health benefits program 
which provides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
    Sec. 614.  The provision of section 613 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 615.  In order to promote Government access to commercial 
information technology, the restriction on purchasing nondomestic 
articles, materials, and supplies set forth in chapter 83 of title 41, 
United States Code (popularly known as the Buy American Act), shall not 
apply to the acquisition by the Federal Government of information 
technology (as defined in section 11101 of title 40, United States 
Code), that is a commercial item (as defined in section 103 of title 
41, United States Code).
    Sec. 616.  Notwithstanding section 1353 of title 31, United States 
Code, no officer or employee of any regulatory agency or commission 
funded by this Act may accept on behalf of that agency, nor may such 
agency or commission accept, payment or reimbursement from a non-
Federal entity for travel, subsistence, or related expenses for the 
purpose of enabling an officer or employee to attend and participate in 
any meeting or similar function relating to the official duties of the 
officer or employee when the entity offering payment or reimbursement 
is a person or entity subject to regulation by such agency or 
commission, or represents a person or entity subject to regulation by 
such agency or commission, unless the person or entity is an 
organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
    Sec. 617.  Notwithstanding section 708 of this Act, funds made 
available to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the 
Securities and Exchange Commission by this or any other Act may be used 
for the interagency funding and sponsorship of a joint advisory 
committee to advise on emerging regulatory issues.
    Sec. 618. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an 
Executive agency covered by this Act otherwise authorized to enter into 
contracts for either leases or the construction or alteration of real 
property for office, meeting, storage, or other space must consult with 
the General Services Administration before issuing a solicitation for 
offers of new leases or construction contracts, and in the case of 
succeeding leases, before entering into negotiations with the current 
lessor.
    (2) Any such agency with authority to enter into an emergency lease 
may do so during any period declared by the President to require 
emergency leasing authority with respect to such agency.
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive agency 
covered by this Act'' means any Executive agency provided funds by this 
Act, but does not include the General Services Administration or the 
United States Postal Service.
    Sec. 619. (a) There are appropriated for the following activities 
the amounts required under current law:
            (1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C. 102).
            (2) Payments to--
                    (A) the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund (28 
                U.S.C. 377(o));
                    (B) the Judicial Survivors' Annuities Fund (28 
                U.S.C. 376(c)); and
                    (C) the United States Court of Federal Claims 
                Judges' Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C. 178(l)).
            (3) Payment of Government contributions--
                    (A) with respect to the health benefits of retired 
                employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, 
                United States Code, and the Retired Federal Employees 
                Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849); and
                    (B) with respect to the life insurance benefits for 
                employees retiring after December 31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. 
                ch. 87).
            (4) Payment to finance the unfunded liability of new and 
        increased annuity benefits under the Civil Service Retirement 
        and Disability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
            (5) Payment of annuities authorized to be paid from the 
        Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund by statutory 
        provisions other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 
        84 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Nothing in this section may be construed to exempt any amount 
appropriated by this section from any otherwise applicable limitation 
on the use of funds contained in this Act.
    Sec. 620.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Federal Trade Commission to complete the draft report entitled 
``Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to Children: Preliminary 
Proposed Nutrition Principles to Guide Industry Self-Regulatory 
Efforts'' unless the Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to 
Children complies with Executive Order No. 13563.
    Sec. 621.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries and expenses for the following positions:
            (1) Director, White House Office of Health Reform, or any 
        substantially similar position.
            (2) Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate 
        Change, or any substantially similar position.
            (3) Senior Advisor to the Secretary of the Treasury 
        assigned to the Presidential Task Force on the Auto Industry 
        and Senior Counselor for Manufacturing Policy, or any 
        substantially similar position.
            (4) White House Director of Urban Affairs, or any 
        substantially similar position.
    Sec. 622.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 44, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 623. (a) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this section, the agencies specified in subsection (b) shall each 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on--
            (1) increasing public participation in the rulemaking 
        process and reducing uncertainty;
            (2) improving coordination with other Federal agencies to 
        eliminate redundant, inconsistent, and overlapping regulations; 
        and
            (3) identifying existing regulations that have been 
        reviewed and determined to be outmoded, ineffective, or 
        excessively burdensome.
    (b) The agencies required to submit a report specified in 
subsection (a) are--
    (1) the Consumer Product Safety Commission;
    (2) the Federal Communications Commission;
    (3) the Federal Trade Commission; and
    (4) the Securities and Exchange Commission.
    Sec. 624.  The unobligated balance in the Securities and Exchange 
Commission Reserve Fund established by section 991 of the Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-203) is 
permanently rescinded.
    Sec. 625.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used by the Securities and Exchange Commission to study, develop, 
propose, finalize, issue, or implement any rule, regulation, or order 
regarding the disclosure of political contributions to tax exempt 
organizations, or dues paid to trade associations.
    Sec. 626.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used by the Financial Stability Oversight Council to make a 
determination, pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) of section 113 of the 
Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5323), with respect to a 
nonbank financial company until--
            (1) the Financial Stability Oversight Council, in the 
        notice described in subsection (e)(1) of such section, 
        identifies with specificity the risks to the financial 
        stability of the United States presented by the nonbank 
        financial company and explains in sufficient detail why 
        regulatory action by the relevant primary financial regulatory 
        agency would be insufficient to mitigate or prevent such risks; 
        and
            (2) if the nonbank financial company presents a plan in a 
        hearing conducted pursuant to subsection (e)(2) of such section 
        to modify its business, structure, or operations in order to 
        mitigate the risks identified in such a notice--
                    (A) the Financial Stability Oversight Council makes 
                a determination as to whether such plan, if 
                implemented, adequately mitigates the identified risks; 
                and
                    (B) if the Financial Stability Oversight Council 
                determines that such plan would adequately mitigate the 
                identified risk, the Council--
                            (i) approves such plan; and
                            (ii) allows the nonbank financial company a 
                        reasonable period of time to implement such 
                        plan.
    Sec. 627.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by a governmental entity to require the disclosure by a provider of 
electronic communication service to the public or remote computing 
service of the contents of a wire or electronic communication that is 
in electronic storage with the provider (as such terms are defined in 
sections 2510 and 2711 of title 18, United States Code) in a manner 
that violates the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States.
    Sec. 628. (a) In each of fiscal years 2017 through 2025, section 
628 of division E of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public 
Law 114-113; 129 Stat. 2469) applies to a joint sales agreement 
regardless of any change in the ownership of the stations involved in 
such agreement.
    (b) In the case of a joint sales agreement to which such section 
applies, while such section is in effect, the Federal Communications 
Commission--
            (1) may not require the termination or modification of such 
        agreement as a condition of the transfer or assignment of a 
        station license or the transfer of station ownership or 
        control; and
            (2) upon request of the transferee or assignee of the 
        station license, shall eliminate any such condition that was 
        imposed after March 31, 2014, and permit the licensees of the 
        stations whose advertising was jointly sold pursuant to such 
        agreement to enter into a new joint sales agreement on 
        substantially similar terms and conditions as the prior 
        agreement.
    (c) In this section, the term ``joint sales agreement'' has the 
meaning given such term in Note 2(k) to section 73.3555 of title 47, 
Code of Federal Regulations, and where a joint sales agreement is part 
of a broader contract, this section shall be limited to the joint sales 
agreement portion of such contract.
    Sec. 629.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
by the Federal Communications Commission to modify, amend, or change 
the rules or regulations of the Commission for universal service high-
cost support for competitive eligible telecommunications carriers in a 
way that is inconsistent with paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of section 
54.307 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on July 
15, 2015: Provided, That this section shall not prohibit the Commission 
from considering, developing, or adopting other support mechanisms as 
an alternative to Mobility Fund Phase II.
    Sec. 630.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce any rule (as defined in section 
551 of title 5, United States Code), or any amendment or repeal of an 
existing rule, that is adopted by vote of the Federal Communications 
Commission after the date of the enactment of this Act, unless the 
Commission publishes the text of such rule, amendment, or repeal on the 
Internet Web site of the Commission not later than 21 days before the 
date on which the vote occurs.
    Sec. 631.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to regulate, directly or indirectly, the prices, other fees, or data 
caps and allowances (as such terms are described in paragraph 164 of 
the Report and Order on Remand, Declaratory Ruling, and Order in the 
matter of protecting and promoting the open Internet, adopted by the 
Federal Communications Commission on February 26, 2015 (FCC 15-24)) 
charged or imposed by providers of broadband Internet access service 
(as defined in the final rules in Appendix A of such Report and Order 
on Remand, Declaratory Ruling, and Order) for such service, regardless 
of whether such regulation takes the form of requirements for future 
conduct or enforcement regarding past conduct.
    Sec. 632.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the Report and Order on Remand, 
Declaratory Ruling, and Order in the matter of protecting and promoting 
the open Internet, adopted by the Federal Communications Commission on 
February 26, 2015 (FCC 15-24), until the first date on which there has 
been a final disposition (including the exhaustion of or expiration of 
the time for any appeals) of all of the following civil actions:
            (1) Alamo Broadband Inc. v. Federal Communications 
        Commission, et al., No. 15-60201, pending in the United States 
        Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) United States Telecom Assoc. v. Federal Communications 
        Commission, et al., No. 15-1063, pending in the United States 
        Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit as of the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) CenturyLink v. Federal Communications Commission, No. 
        15-1099, pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the 
        District of Columbia Circuit as of the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.
    Sec. 633. (a) Section 1105(a)(35) of title 31, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraph (B) and redesignating 
        subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B);
            (2) by striking ``homeland security'' in each instance it 
        appears and inserting ``cybersecurity''; and
            (3) by amending subparagraph (B) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1)) to read as follows:
            ``(B) Prior to implementing this paragraph, including 
        determining what Federal activities or accounts constitute 
        cybersecurity for purposes of budgetary classification, the 
        Office of Management and Budget shall consult with the 
        Committees on Appropriations and the Committees on the Budget 
        of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee 
        on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the 
        Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs of the 
        Senate.''.
    (b) The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to budget 
submissions under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for 
fiscal year 2018 and each subsequent fiscal year.
    Sec. 634. (a) Effective one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, subtitle B of title IV of Public Law 102--281 is repealed.
    (b) On the day before the date of the repeal under subsection (a), 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer the amounts in the fund 
described in section 408(a) of subtitle A of title IV of such Public 
Law into the general fund of the Treasury.
    Sec. 635. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, adjudication activities, or other law enforcement- or 
victim assistance-related activity.
    Sec. 636. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to finalize, adopt, implement, administer, or enforce any proposed 
rule under section 629 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
549) before the date that is 180 days after the completion of the 
following process:
            (1) There has been completed a study that--
                    (A) evaluates the potential costs and benefits of 
                the proposed rule and the potential costs and benefits 
                of other market-based solutions; and
                    (B) meets the requirements of subsection (b).
            (2) The Federal Communications Commission has--
                    (A) sought public comment on the study described in 
                paragraph (1);
                    (B) provided a period of not less than 90 days for 
                the submission of such comments; and
                    (C) addressed the concerns raised in the comment 
                cycle under subparagraph (B) in a report adopted by 
                vote of the Commission and made publicly available.
    (b) A study meets the requirements of this subsection if the 
study--
            (1) is a peer-reviewed study conducted by an institution of 
        higher education (as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a))) or an individual in 
        the individual's capacity as a faculty member at such an 
        institution; and
            (2) at minimum, analyzes the potential impact of the 
        proposed rule on--
                    (A) all parties in the video programming 
                marketplace, including video programming creators, 
                programming networks, multichannel video programming 
                distributors, and subscribers of multichannel video 
                programming services;
                    (B) video programming content diversity;
                    (C) intellectual property and content licensing; 
                and
                    (D) consumer privacy and the legal remedies 
                available to consumers for violations of video privacy 
                obligations.
    Sec. 637.  None of the funds made available in this Act or 
transferred pursuant to section 1017 of Public Law 111-203 may be used 
to take any action on the basis of an individual being a mortgage 
originator as defined in section 103(cc) of the Truth in Lending Act 
(15 U.S.C. 1602(cc)) against any individual who is a retailer of 
manufactured homes or its employees, unless such retailer or its 
employees receive compensation or gain for engaging in activities 
described in paragraph (1)(A) of such section 103(cc) that is in excess 
of any compensation or gain received in a comparable cash transaction.
    Sec. 638.  None of the funds made available in this Act or 
transferred pursuant to section 1017 of Public Law 111-203 may be used 
to enforce the provisions of section 129 of the Truth in Lending Act 
(15 U.S.C. 1639) for any transaction that is less than $75,000 and is 
secured by a dwelling that is personal property or is a transaction 
that does not include the purchase of real property on which a dwelling 
is to be placed if--
            (1) the annual percentage rate at consummation of the 
        transaction, as determined under section 103(bb) of the Truth 
        in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602(bb)) does not exceed 10 
        percentage points; and
            (2) the total points and fees payable in connection with 
        the transaction, as determined under such section 103(bb), do 
        not exceed the greater of 5 percent or $3,000.
    Sec. 639.  None of the funds made available by this Act, any other 
Act, or transferred to the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 
pursuant to section 1017 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 
2010 may be used to issue or enforce any rule or regulation with 
respect to payday loans (as described under section 1024(a)(1)(E) of 
such Act), vehicle title loans, or other similar loans during fiscal 
year 2017 and the Bureau may not issue or enforce any such rule or 
regulation after fiscal year 2017 until such time as the Bureau has 
submitted to Congress a detailed report, after providing for a public 
comment period of not less than 90 days, that (1) analyzes the impact 
of any such rule or regulation on consumer access to credit, including 
an analysis of the rule or regulation's impact on populations that have 
traditionally had limited access to credit; and (2) identifies existing 
alternative credit products that are immediately available to existing 
users of payday loans, vehicle title loans, or other similar loans at 
the same credit risk profiles and at sufficient levels to fully replace 
any anticipated potential reduction in current sources of short-term, 
small-dollar credit as a result of the rule or regulation.
    Sec. 640. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used to implement, promulgate, finalize or enforce Executive Order 
13673, issued July 31, 2014, or to develop any regulation or guidance 
related thereto, until--
            (1) a study is conducted by the Comptroller General 
        analyzing the impacts of such order on affected Federal 
        agencies' missions, impacts on the industrial base, and 
        including a cost benefit analysis of implementation of the such 
        order versus potential alternatives; and
            (2) the Secretary of Labor has reviewed the report of the 
        study conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) and certified that 
        the benefits of the order outweigh any associated costs and 
        will not impede agency missions.
    (b) The study to be conducted by the Comptroller General shall be 
publicly available and shall be submitted to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate. The elements 
of the study shall include an assessment of--
    (1) the estimated costs to each Federal agency or department to 
implement the Executive order, including the costs of designating labor 
compliance advisors and any other associated positions or resources 
needed to support the functions of the labor compliance advisors;
    (2) the effects of the Executive order on the industrial base 
(including the defense industrial base) and including input from both 
the Federal agencies (including the Department of Defense) and affected 
members of the industrial base, including how the order would affect 
the ability of mission critical contractors to continue to provide 
goods and services to the Federal Government;
    (3) any private sector capabilities that the agency or department 
would risk losing access to if the Executive order were implemented as 
defined in the FAR proposed rule (FAR Case 2014-025; Docket No. 2014-
0025) and any related final rule;
    (4) costs to prime contractors and subcontractors associated with 
complying with the proposed rule or any related final rule, including 
the costs of having to create new information systems or processes to 
obtain and manage the data required by the Executive order;
    (5) the effect of the Executive order on Federal acquisition 
competition and the ability to encourage non-traditional contractors to 
compete in the Federal market;
    (6) the effect of the Executive order on the ability of the Federal 
Government to meet statutory small business prime contracting and 
subcontracting goals, including such goals for minority-owned, women-
owned, and service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses;
    (7) the total number of violations (as defined in the proposed 
Department of Labor guidance) and the number of such violations where a 
challenge was still pending that would trigger disclosure by potential 
bidders to a Government solicitation;
    (8) any delays to the procurement process that will result from the 
implementation of the Executive order;
    (9) alternative approaches to effect the goal of the Executive 
order, including potential improvements to Government information 
systems, that could provide greater transparency into labor law 
compliance without shifting the reporting burden to industry; and
    (10) such other matters as the Comptroller General determines 
relevant.
    Sec. 641. (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to pay for an abortion or the administrative expenses in 
connection with a multi-State qualified health plan offered under a 
contract under section 1334 of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18054) which provides any benefits or coverage for 
abortions.
    (2) The provision of paragraph (1) shall not apply where the life 
of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or 
the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.

                               TITLE VII

                  GENERAL PROVISIONS--GOVERNMENT-WIDE

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 701.  No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 2017 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers and employees of such 
department, agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 702.  Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United States Code, for the purchase of 
any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, ambulances, law 
enforcement vehicles, protective vehicles, and undercover surveillance 
vehicles), is hereby fixed at $19,947 except station wagons for which 
the maximum shall be $19,997: Provided, That these limits may be 
exceeded by not to exceed $7,250 for police-type vehicles: Provided 
further, That the limits set forth in this section may not be exceeded 
by more than 5 percent for electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for 
demonstration under the provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle 
Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, 
That the limits set forth in this section may be exceeded by the 
incremental cost of clean alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant 
to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of comparable conventionally fueled 
vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section 
shall not apply to any vehicle that is a commercial item and which 
operates on alternative fuel, including but not limited to electric, 
plug-in hybrid electric, and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles.
    Sec. 703.  Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 704.  Unless otherwise specified in law during the current 
fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or 
employee of the Government of the United States (including any agency 
the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government of the 
United States) whose post of duty is in the continental United States 
unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a 
person who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence and is seeking 
citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who 
is admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or is granted asylum under 
8 U.S.C. 1158 and has filed a declaration of intention to become a 
lawful permanent resident and then a citizen when eligible; or (4) is a 
person who owes allegiance to the United States: Provided, That for 
purposes of this section, affidavits signed by any such person shall be 
considered prima facie evidence that the requirements of this section 
with respect to his or her status are being complied with: Provided 
further, That for purposes of subsections (2) and (3) such affidavits 
shall be submitted prior to employment and updated thereafter as 
necessary: Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or 
employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall be 
recoverable in action by the Federal Government: Provided further, That 
this section shall not apply to any person who is an officer or 
employee of the Government of the United States on the date of 
enactment of this Act, or to international broadcasters employed by the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors, or to temporary employment of 
translators, or to temporary employment in the field service (not to 
exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies: Provided further, That this 
section does not apply to the employment as wildland firefighters for 
not more than 120 days of nonresident aliens employed by the Department 
of the Interior or the USDA Forest Service pursuant to an agreement 
with another country.
    Sec. 705.  Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 706.  In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13693 
        (March 19, 2015), including any such programs adopted prior to 
        the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    Sec. 707.  Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available: Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 708.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards 
(except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, 
or similar groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which 
do not have a prior and specific statutory approval to receive 
financial support from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 709.  None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this or any other Act shall be used to implement, 
administer, or enforce any regulation which has been disapproved 
pursuant to a joint resolution duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 710.  During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Federal 
Government appointed by the President of the United States, holds 
office, no funds may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to 
furnish or redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, 
officer, or employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for 
any such office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or 
redecoration is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate. For the purposes of this 
section, the term ``office'' shall include the entire suite of offices 
assigned to the individual, as well as any other space used primarily 
by the individual or the use of which is directly controlled by the 
individual.
    Sec. 711.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of national 
security and emergency preparedness telecommunications initiatives 
which benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities, as 
provided by Executive Order No. 13618 (July 6, 2012).
    Sec. 712. (a) None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any department, agency, or other 
instrumentality of the Federal Government to pay the salaries or 
expenses of any individual appointed to a position of a confidential or 
policy-determining character that is excepted from the competitive 
service under section 3302 of title 5, United States Code, (pursuant to 
schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations) unless the head of the applicable department, agency, or 
other instrumentality employing such schedule C individual certifies to 
the Director of the Office of Personnel Management that the schedule C 
position occupied by the individual was not created solely or primarily 
in order to detail the individual to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the Armed Forces detailed to or from an element 
of the intelligence community (as that term is defined under section 
3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))).
    Sec. 713.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance or 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
        the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any 
        of the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 714. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 715.  No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television, 
infographic, social media, or film presentation designed to support or 
defeat legislation pending before the Congress, except in presentation 
to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home address 
to any labor organization except when the employee has authorized such 
disclosure or when such disclosure has been ordered by a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 717.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing, 
telephone or electronic mailing lists to any person or any organization 
outside of the Federal Government without the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.
    Sec. 718.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used directly or indirectly, including by private 
contractor, for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United 
States not heretofore authorized by Congress.
    Sec. 719. (a) In this section, the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency, as defined under 5 U.S.C. 
        105; and
            (2) includes a military department, as defined under 
        section 102 of such title, the United States Postal Service, 
        and the Postal Regulatory Commission.
    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), has an obligation to expend an honest 
effort and a reasonable proportion of such employee's time in the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 720.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act to any department or agency, which is a member of the Federal 
Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB), shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of FASAB administrative costs.
    Sec. 721.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of this 
Act, the head of each Executive department and agency is hereby 
authorized to transfer to or reimburse ``General Services 
Administration, Government-wide Policy'' with the approval of the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, funds made available 
for the current fiscal year by this or any other Act, including rebates 
from charge card and other contracts: Provided, That these funds shall 
be administered by the Administrator of General Services to support 
Government-wide and other multi-agency financial, information 
technology, procurement, and other management innovations, initiatives, 
and activities, including improving coordination and reducing 
duplication, as approved by the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, in consultation with the appropriate interagency and multi-
agency groups designated by the Director (including the President's 
Management Council for overall management improvement initiatives, the 
Chief Financial Officers Council for financial management initiatives, 
the Chief Information Officers Council for information technology 
initiatives, the Chief Human Capital Officers Council for human capital 
initiatives, the Chief Acquisition Officers Council for procurement 
initiatives, and the Performance Improvement Council for performance 
improvement initiatives): Provided further, That the total funds 
transferred or reimbursed shall not exceed $15,000,000 to improve 
coordination, reduce duplication, and for other activities related to 
Federal Government Priority Goals established by 31 U.S.C. 1120, and 
not to exceed $17,000,000 for Government-Wide innovations, initiatives, 
and activities: Provided further, That the funds transferred to or for 
reimbursement of ``General Services Administration, Government-wide 
Policy'' during fiscal year 2017 shall remain available for obligation 
through September 30, 2018: Provided further, That such transfers or 
reimbursements may only be made after 15 days following notification of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
    Sec. 722.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a woman may 
breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or on 
Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized 
to be present at the location.
    Sec. 723.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of specific 
projects, workshops, studies, and similar efforts to carry out the 
purposes of the National Science and Technology Council (authorized by 
Executive Order No. 12881), which benefit multiple Federal departments, 
agencies, or entities: Provided, That the Office of Management and 
Budget shall provide a report describing the budget of and resources 
connected with the National Science and Technology Council to the 
Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on Science and 
Technology, and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation 90 days after enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 724.  Any request for proposals, solicitation, grant 
application, form, notification, press release, or other publications 
involving the distribution of Federal funds shall comply with any 
relevant requirements in part 200 of title 2, Code of Federal 
Regulations: Provided, That this section shall apply to direct 
payments, formula funds, and grants received by a State receiving 
Federal funds.
    Sec. 725. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of 
Individuals' Internet Use.--None of the funds made available in this or 
any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
            (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregation of data, 
        derived from any means, that includes any personally 
        identifiable information relating to an individual's access to 
        or use of any Federal Government Internet site of the agency; 
        or
            (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
        (including another government agency) to collect, review, or 
        obtain any aggregation of data, derived from any means, that 
        includes any personally identifiable information relating to an 
        individual's access to or use of any nongovernmental Internet 
        site.
    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection (a) 
shall not apply to--
            (1) any record of aggregate data that does not identify 
        particular persons;
            (2) any voluntary submission of personally identifiable 
        information;
            (3) any action taken for law enforcement, regulatory, or 
        supervisory purposes, in accordance with applicable law; or
            (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that is a 
        system security action taken by the operator of an Internet 
        site and is necessarily incident to providing the Internet site 
        services or to protecting the rights or property of the 
        provider of the Internet site.
    (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
        implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in law.
            (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of the 
        agency's supervised institutions, including assessing safety 
        and soundness, overall financial condition, management 
        practices and policies and compliance with applicable standards 
        as provided in law.
    Sec. 726. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision 
providing prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also 
includes a provision for contraceptive coverage.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Personal Care's HMO; and
                    (B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for the 
        plan objects to such coverage on the basis of religious 
        beliefs.
    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses to prescribe or 
otherwise provide for contraceptives because such activities would be 
contrary to the individual's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require coverage 
of abortion or abortion-related services.
    Sec. 727.  The United States is committed to ensuring the health of 
its Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic athletes, and supports the 
strict adherence to anti-doping in sport through testing, adjudication, 
education, and research as performed by nationally recognized oversight 
authorities.
    Sec. 728.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for official travel to Federal departments and agencies 
may be used by such departments and agencies, if consistent with Office 
of Management and Budget Circular A-126 regarding official travel for 
Government personnel, to participate in the fractional aircraft 
ownership pilot program.
    Sec. 729.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or made available under this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used to implement or enforce restrictions or 
limitations on the Coast Guard Congressional Fellowship Program, or to 
implement the proposed regulations of the Office of Personnel 
Management to add sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part 300 of title 
5 of the Code of Federal Regulations, published in the Federal 
Register, volume 68, number 174, on September 9, 2003 (relating to the 
detail of executive branch employees to the legislative branch).
    Sec. 730.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, except that the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain the temporary use 
of additional facilities by lease, contract, or other agreement for 
training which cannot be accommodated in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 731.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none of the 
funds provided in this or any other Act may be used by an executive 
branch agency to produce any prepackaged news story intended for 
broadcast or distribution in the United States, unless the story 
includes a clear notification within the text or audio of the 
prepackaged news story that the prepackaged news story was prepared or 
funded by that executive branch agency.
    Sec. 732.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 552a of title 5, United States Code 
(popularly known as the Privacy Act), and regulations implementing that 
section.
    Sec. 733. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be used for any 
Federal Government contract with any foreign incorporated entity which 
is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under section 835(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary 
of such an entity.
    (b) Waivers.--
            (1) In general.--Any Secretary shall waive subsection (a) 
        with respect to any Federal Government contract under the 
        authority of such Secretary if the Secretary determines that 
        the waiver is required in the interest of national security.
            (2) Report to congress.--Any Secretary issuing a waiver 
        under paragraph (1) shall report such issuance to Congress.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply to any Federal 
Government contract entered into before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, or to any task order issued pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 734.  During fiscal year 2017, for each employee who--
            (1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or 8414(b)(1)(B) of 
        title 5, United States Code; or
            (2) retires under any other provision of subchapter III of 
        chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title 5 and receives a payment 
        as an incentive to separate, the separating agency shall remit 
        to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount 
        equal to the Office of Personnel Management's average unit cost 
        of processing a retirement claim for the preceding fiscal year. 
        Such amounts shall be available until expended to the Office of 
        Personnel Management and shall be deemed to be an 
        administrative expense under section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, 
        United States Code.
    Sec. 735. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to recommend or require any entity submitting an offer 
for a Federal contract or otherwise performing or participating in 
acquisition at any stage of the acquisition process (as defined in 
section 131 of title 41, United States Code) of property or services by 
the Federal Government to disclose any of the following information as 
a condition of submitting the offer or otherwise performing in or 
participating in such acquisition:
            (1) Any payment consisting of a contribution, expenditure, 
        independent expenditure, or disbursement for an electioneering 
        communication that is made by the entity, its officers or 
        directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to a 
        candidate for election for Federal office or to a political 
        committee, or that is otherwise made with respect to any 
        election for Federal office.
            (2) Any disbursement of funds (other than a payment 
        described in paragraph (1)) made by the entity, its officers or 
        directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to any 
        person with the intent or the reasonable expectation that the 
        person will use the funds to make a payment described in 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) In this section, each of the terms ``contribution'', 
``expenditure'', ``independent expenditure'', ``electioneering 
communication'', ``candidate'', ``election'', and ``Federal office'' 
has the meaning given such term in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (2 U.S.C. 431 et seq.).
    Sec. 736.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to pay for the painting of a portrait of an officer or 
employee of the Federal government, including the President, the Vice 
President, a member of Congress (including a Delegate or a Resident 
Commissioner to Congress), the head of an executive branch agency (as 
defined in section 133 of title 41, United States Code), or the head of 
an office of the legislative branch.
    Sec. 737. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2017, by this or any other Act, may 
be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described in section 
5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (A) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by the comparable section for the previous 
        fiscal years until the normal effective date of the applicable 
        wage survey adjustment that is to take effect in fiscal year 
        2017, in an amount that exceeds the rate payable for the 
        applicable grade and step of the applicable wage schedule in 
        accordance with such section; and
            (B) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 2017, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under subparagraph (A) by 
        more than the sum of--
                    (i) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 2017 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (ii) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 2017 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and 
                the overall average percentage of such payments which 
                was effective in the previous fiscal year under such 
                section.
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which paragraph (1) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable to such employee.
    (3) For the purposes of this subsection, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this subsection and who is paid from a 
schedule not in existence on September 30, 2016, shall be determined 
under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium 
pay for employees subject to this subsection may not be changed from 
the rates in effect on September 30, 2016, except to the extent 
determined by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with 
the purpose of this subsection.
    (5) This subsection shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 2016.
    (6) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any requirement 
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate 
of salary or basic pay payable after the application of this subsection 
shall be treated as the rate of salary or basic pay.
    (7) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this subsection at a 
rate in excess of the rate that would be payable were this subsection 
not in effect.
    (8) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions 
to the limitations imposed by this subsection if the Office determines 
that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or 
retention of qualified employees.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the adjustment in rates of 
basic pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in fiscal year 
2017 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, United States Code, shall 
be--
            (1) not less than the percentage received by employees in 
        the same location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted 
        pursuant to the statutory pay systems under sections 5303 and 
        5304 of title 5, United States Code: Provided, That prevailing 
        rate employees at locations where there are no employees whose 
        pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5, 
        United States Code, and prevailing rate employees described in 
        section 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
        considered to be located in the pay locality designated as 
        ``Rest of United States'' pursuant to section 5304 of title 5, 
        United States Code, for purposes of this subsection; and
            (2) effective as of the first day of the first applicable 
        pay period beginning after September 30, 2016.
    Sec. 738. (a) The Vice President may not receive a pay raise in 
calendar year 2017, notwithstanding the rate adjustment made under 
section 104 of title 3, United States Code, or any other provision of 
law.
    (b) An employee serving in an Executive Schedule position, or in a 
position for which the rate of pay is fixed by statute at an Executive 
Schedule rate, may not receive a pay rate increase in calendar year 
2017, notwithstanding schedule adjustments made under section 5318 of 
title 5, United States Code, or any other provision of law, except as 
provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i). This subsection applies only 
to employees who are holding a position under a political appointment.
    (c) A chief of mission or ambassador at large may not receive a pay 
rate increase in calendar year 2017, notwithstanding section 401 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465) or any other provision 
of law, except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i).
    (d) Notwithstanding sections 5382 and 5383 of title 5, United 
States Code, a pay rate increase may not be received in calendar year 
2017 (except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i)) by--
            (1) a noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive Service 
        paid a rate of basic pay at or above level IV of the Executive 
        Schedule; or
            (2) a limited term appointee or limited emergency appointee 
        in the Senior Executive Service serving under a political 
        appointment and paid a rate of basic pay at or above level IV 
        of the Executive Schedule.
    (e) Any employee paid a rate of basic pay (including any locality-
based payments under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, or 
similar authority) at or above level IV of the Executive Schedule who 
serves under a political appointment may not receive a pay rate 
increase in calendar year 2017, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i). This subsection 
does not apply to employees in the General Schedule pay system or the 
Foreign Service pay system, or to employees appointed under section 
3161 of title 5, United States Code, or to employees in another pay 
system whose position would be classified at GS-15 or below if chapter 
51 of title 5, United States Code, applied to them.
    (f) Nothing in subsections (b) through (e) shall prevent employees 
who do not serve under a political appointment from receiving pay 
increases as otherwise provided under applicable law.
    (g) A career appointee in the Senior Executive Service who receives 
a Presidential appointment and who makes an election to retain Senior 
Executive Service basic pay entitlements under section 3392 of title 5, 
United States Code, is not subject to this section.
    (h) A member of the Senior Foreign Service who receives a 
Presidential appointment to any position in the executive branch and 
who makes an election to retain Senior Foreign Service pay entitlements 
under section 302(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-
465) is not subject to this section.
    (i) Notwithstanding subsections (b) through (e), an employee in a 
covered position may receive a pay rate increase upon an authorized 
movement to a different covered position with higher-level duties and a 
pre-established higher level or range of pay, except that any such 
increase must be based on the rates of pay and applicable pay 
limitations in effect on December 31, 2013.
    (j) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for an individual 
who is newly appointed to a covered position during the period of time 
subject to this section, the initial pay rate shall be based on the 
rates of pay and applicable pay limitations in effect on December 31, 
2013.
    (k) If an employee affected by subsections (b) through (e) is 
subject to a biweekly pay period that begins in calendar year 2017 but 
ends in calendar year 2018, the bar on the employee's receipt of pay 
rate increases shall apply through the end of that pay period.
    Sec. 739. (a) The head of any Executive branch department, agency, 
board, commission, or office funded by this or any other appropriations 
Act shall submit annual reports to the Inspector General or senior 
ethics official for any entity without an Inspector General, regarding 
the costs and contracting procedures related to each conference held by 
any such department, agency, board, commission, or office during fiscal 
year 2017 for which the cost to the United States Government was more 
than $100,000.
    (b) Each report submitted shall include, for each conference 
described in subsection (a) held during the applicable period--
            (1) a description of its purpose;
            (2) the number of participants attending;
            (3) a detailed statement of the costs to the United States 
        Government, including--
                    (A) the cost of any food or beverages;
                    (B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
                    (C) the cost of employee or contractor travel to 
                and from the conference; and
                    (D) a discussion of the methodology used to 
                determine which costs relate to the conference; and
            (4) a description of the contracting procedures used 
        including--
                    (A) whether contracts were awarded on a competitive 
                basis; and
                    (B) a discussion of any cost comparison conducted 
                by the departmental component or office in evaluating 
                potential contractors for the conference.
    (c) Within 15 days after the end of a quarter, the head of any such 
department, agency, board, commission, or office shall notify the 
Inspector General or senior ethics official for any entity without an 
Inspector General, of the date, location, and number of employees 
attending a conference held by any Executive branch department, agency, 
board, commission, or office funded by this or any other appropriations 
Act during fiscal year 2017 for which the cost to the United States 
Government was more than $20,000.
    (d) A grant or contract funded by amounts appropriated by this or 
any other appropriations Act may not be used for the purpose of 
defraying the costs of a conference described in subsection (c) that is 
not directly and programmatically related to the purpose for which the 
grant or contract was awarded, such as a conference held in connection 
with planning, training, assessment, review, or other routine purposes 
related to a project funded by the grant or contract.
    (e) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used for travel and conference activities 
that are not in compliance with Office of Management and Budget 
Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012 or any subsequent revisions to 
that memorandum.
    Sec. 740.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used to increase, eliminate, or reduce 
funding for a program, project, or activity as proposed in the 
President's budget request for a fiscal year until such proposed change 
is subsequently enacted in an appropriation Act, or unless such change 
is made pursuant to the reprogramming or transfer provisions of this or 
any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 741. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be available for a contract, 
grant, or cooperative agreement with an entity that requires employees 
or contractors of such entity seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse 
to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting 
or otherwise restricting such employees or contractors from lawfully 
reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or 
law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency 
authorized to receive such information.
    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not contravene 
requirements applicable to Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or any other 
form issued by a Federal department or agency governing the 
nondisclosure of classified information.
    Sec. 742. (a) No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard Forms 312 and 
4414 of the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, form, or 
agreement if such policy, form, or agreement does not contain the 
following provisions: ``These provisions are consistent with and do not 
supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, 
rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order 
relating to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, 
(3) the reporting to an Inspector General of a violation of any law, 
rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse 
of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or 
safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, 
requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created 
by controlling Executive orders and statutory provisions are 
incorporated into this agreement and are controlling.'': Provided, That 
notwithstanding the preceding provision of this section, a 
nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is to be executed by a 
person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or intelligence-
related activity, other than an employee or officer of the United 
States Government, may contain provisions appropriate to the particular 
activity for which such document is to be used. Such form or agreement 
shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose any 
classified information received in the course of such activity unless 
specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. Such 
nondisclosure forms shall also make it clear that they do not bar 
disclosures to Congress, or to an authorized official of an executive 
agency or the Department of Justice, that are essential to reporting a 
substantial violation of law.
    (b) A nondisclosure agreement may continue to be implemented and 
enforced notwithstanding subsection (a) if it complies with the 
requirements for such agreement that were in effect when the agreement 
was entered into.
    (c) No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used to 
implement or enforce any agreement entered into during fiscal year 2014 
which does not contain substantially similar language to that required 
in subsection (a).
    Sec. 743.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, 
or cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or 
loan guarantee to, any corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax 
liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and 
administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is 
not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the 
authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, where the 
awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless a Federal 
agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and 
has made a determination that this further action is not necessary to 
protect the interests of the Government.
    Sec. 744.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, 
or cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or 
loan guarantee to, any corporation that was convicted of a felony 
criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 
months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless a 
Federal agency has considered suspension or debarment of the 
corporation and has made a determination that this further action is 
not necessary to protect the interests of the Government.
    Sec. 745.  None of the funds made available under this or any other 
Act may be used to--
     (a) implement, administer, carry out, modify, revise, or enforce 
Executive Order 13690, entitled ``Establishing a Federal Flood Risk 
Management Standard and a Process for Further Soliciting and 
Considering Stakeholder Input'' (issued January 30, 2015), until such 
time as each affected agency---
            (1) publically releases and submits to the appropriate 
        Congressional committees an implementation plan that identifies 
        all specific agency responsibilities and program changes, 
        including an assessment of the near term and long term costs 
        and benefits of the responsibilities and changes identified in 
        such plan and
            (2) seeks public comment on any regulation, policy, or 
        guidance to implement Executive Order 13690 for not less than 
        180 days and holds at least one public hearing; or
    (b) implement Executive Order 13690 in a manner that modifies the 
non-grant components of the National Flood Insurance Program under the 
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4011 et seq.); or
    (c) apply Executive Order 13690 or the Federal Flood Risk 
Management Standard by any component of the Department of Defense, 
including the Army Corps of Engineers in a way that changes the 
``floodplain'' considered when determining whether or not to issue a 
permit under section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
U.S.C. 1344) or section 10 of the Act of March 3, 1899 (chapter 425, 30 
Stat. 1151; 33 U.S.C. 403).
    Sec. 746.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in any title other than title IV or VIII shall 
not apply to such title IV or VIII.

                               TITLE VIII

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 801.  There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of legal settlements or judgments that have been 
entered against the District of Columbia government.
    Sec. 802.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
used for publicity or propaganda purposes or implementation of any 
policy including boycott designed to support or defeat legislation 
pending before Congress or any State legislature.
    Sec. 803. (a) None of the Federal funds provided under this Act to 
the agencies funded by this Act, both Federal and District government 
agencies, that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2017, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditures 
for an agency through a reprogramming of funds which--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or responsibility 
        center;
            (3) establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, 
        limited or increased under this Act;
            (4) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        program, project, or responsibility center for which funds have 
        been denied or restricted;
            (5) re-establishes any program or project previously 
        deferred through reprogramming;
            (6) augments any existing program, project, or 
        responsibility center through a reprogramming of funds in 
        excess of $3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) increases by 20 percent or more personnel assigned to a 
        specific program, project or responsibility center,
unless prior approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
    (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to approve 
and execute reprogramming and transfer requests of local funds under 
this title through November 7, 2017.
    Sec. 804.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be 
used by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or 
other costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or 
United States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of 
Columbia Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. 
Law 3-171; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-123).
    Sec. 805.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, none of 
the funds made available by this Act or by any other Act may be used to 
provide any officer or employee of the District of Columbia with an 
official vehicle unless the officer or employee uses the vehicle only 
in the performance of the officer's or employee's official duties. For 
purposes of this section, the term ``official duties'' does not include 
travel between the officer's or employee's residence and workplace, 
except in the case of--
            (1) an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police 
        Department who resides in the District of Columbia or is 
        otherwise designated by the Chief of the Department;
            (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an officer or 
        employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency Medical 
        Services Department who resides in the District of Columbia and 
        is on call 24 hours a day;
            (3) at the discretion of the Director of the Department of 
        Corrections, an officer or employee of the District of Columbia 
        Department of Corrections who resides in the District of 
        Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
            (4) at the discretion of the Chief Medical Examiner, an 
        officer or employee of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner 
        who resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 24 hours 
        a day;
            (5) at the discretion of the Director of the Homeland 
        Security and Emergency Management Agency, an officer or 
        employee of the Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
        Agency who resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 
        24 hours a day;
            (6) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; and
            (7) the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
        Columbia.
    Sec. 806. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may 
be used by the District of Columbia Attorney General or any other 
officer or entity of the District government to provide assistance for 
any petition drive or civil action which seeks to require Congress to 
provide for voting representation in Congress for the District of 
Columbia.
    (b) Nothing in this section bars the District of Columbia Attorney 
General from reviewing or commenting on briefs in private lawsuits, or 
from consulting with officials of the District government regarding 
such lawsuits.
    Sec. 807.  None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may be 
used for any program of distributing sterile needles or syringes for 
the hypodermic injection of any illegal drug.
    Sec. 808.  Nothing in this Act may be construed to prevent the 
Council or Mayor of the District of Columbia from addressing the issue 
of the provision of contraceptive coverage by health insurance plans, 
but it is the intent of Congress that any legislation enacted on such 
issue should include a ``conscience clause'' which provides exceptions 
for religious beliefs and moral convictions.
    Sec. 809. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may 
be used to enact or carry out any law, rule, or regulation to legalize 
or otherwise reduce penalties associated with the possession, use, or 
distribution of any schedule I substance under the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or any tetrahydrocannabinols 
derivative.
    (b) No funds available for obligation or expenditure by any officer 
or employee of the District of Columbia government may be used to enact 
any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or otherwise reduce penalties 
associated with the possession, use, or distribution of any schedule I 
substance under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) 
or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative for recreational purposes.
    Sec. 810.  No funds available for obligation or expenditure by any 
officer or employee of the District of Columbia government shall be 
expended for any abortion except where the life of the mother would be 
endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where the pregnancy is 
the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 811. (a) No later than 30 calendar days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the 
Mayor, and the Council of the District of Columbia, a revised 
appropriated funds operating budget in the format of the budget that 
the District of Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 
of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-
204.42), for all agencies of the District of Columbia government for 
fiscal year 2017 that is in the total amount of the approved 
appropriation and that realigns all budgeted data for personal services 
and other-than-personal services, respectively, with anticipated actual 
expenditures.
    (b) This section shall apply only to an agency for which the Chief 
Financial Officer for the District of Columbia certifies that a 
reallocation is required to address unanticipated changes in program 
requirements.
    Sec. 812.  No later than 30 calendar days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the 
Mayor, and the Council for the District of Columbia, a revised 
appropriated funds operating budget for the District of Columbia Public 
Schools that aligns schools budgets to actual enrollment. The revised 
appropriated funds budget shall be in the format of the budget that the 
District of Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-
204.42).
    Sec. 813. (a) Amounts appropriated in this Act as operating funds 
may be transferred to the District of Columbia's enterprise and capital 
funds and such amounts, once transferred, shall retain appropriation 
authority consistent with the provisions of this Act.
    (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to reprogram 
or transfer for operating expenses any local funds transferred or 
reprogrammed in this or the four prior fiscal years from operating 
funds to capital funds, and such amounts, once transferred or 
reprogrammed, shall retain appropriation authority consistent with the 
provisions of this Act.
    (c) The District of Columbia government may not transfer or 
reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, 
or other obligations issued for capital projects.
    Sec. 814.  None of the Federal funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may 
any be transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so 
provided herein.
    Sec. 815.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law or 
under this Act, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances 
remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2017 from appropriations 
of Federal funds made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal 
year 2017 in this Act, shall remain available through September 30, 
2018, for each such account for the purposes authorized: Provided, That 
a request shall be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines outlined in section 
803 of this Act.
    Sec. 816. (a)(1) During fiscal year 2018, during a period in which 
neither a District of Columbia continuing resolution or a regular 
District of Columbia appropriation bill is in effect, local funds are 
appropriated in the amount provided for any project or activity for 
which local funds are provided in the Act referred to in paragraph (2) 
(subject to any modifications enacted by the District of Columbia as of 
the beginning of the period during which this subsection is in effect) 
at the rate set forth by such Act.
    (2) The Act referred to in this paragraph is the Act of the Council 
of the District of Columbia pursuant to which a proposed budget is 
approved for fiscal year 2018 which (subject to the requirements of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act) will constitute the local portion 
of the annual budget for the District of Columbia government for fiscal 
year 2018 for purposes of section 446 of the District of Columbia Home 
Rule Act (sec. 1-204.46, D.C. Official Code).
    (b) Appropriations made by subsection (a) shall cease to be 
available--
            (1) during any period in which a District of Columbia 
        continuing resolution for fiscal year 2018 is in effect; or
            (2) upon the enactment into law of the regular District of 
        Columbia appropriation bill for fiscal year 2018.
    (c) An appropriation made by subsection (a) is provided under the 
authority and conditions as provided under this Act and shall be 
available to the extent and in the manner that would be provided by 
this Act.
    (d) An appropriation made by subsection (a) shall cover all 
obligations or expenditures incurred for such project or activity 
during the portion of fiscal year 2018 for which this section applies 
to such project or activity.
    (e) This section shall not apply to a project or activity during 
any period of fiscal year 2018 if any other provision of law (other 
than an authorization of appropriations)--
            (1) makes an appropriation, makes funds available, or 
        grants authority for such project or activity to continue for 
        such period; or
            (2) specifically provides that no appropriation shall be 
        made, no funds shall be made available, or no authority shall 
        be granted for such project or activity to continue for such 
        period.
    (f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect 
obligations of the government of the District of Columbia mandated by 
other law.
    Sec. 817. (a) Effective with respect to fiscal year 2013 and each 
succeeding fiscal year, the Local Budget Autonomy Amendment Act of 2012 
(D.C. Law 19-321) is hereby repealed, and any provision of law amended 
or repealed by such Act shall be restored or revived as if such Act had 
not been enacted into law.
    (b)(1) Section 450 of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 
1-204.50, D.C. Official Code) is amended--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``The 
                General Fund'' and inserting ``(a) In General.--The 
                General Fund''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(b) Application of Federal Appropriations Process.--Nothing in 
this Act shall be construed as creating a continuing appropriation of 
the General Fund described in subsection (a). All funds provided for 
the District of Columbia shall be appropriated on an annual fiscal year 
basis through the Federal appropriations process. For each fiscal year, 
the District shall be subject to all applicable requirements of 
subchapter III of chapter 13 and subchapter II of chapter 15 of title 
31, United States Code (commonly known as the `Anti-Deficiency Act'), 
the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921, and all other requirements and 
restrictions applicable to appropriations for such fiscal year.''.
    (2) Section 603(a) of such Act (sec. 1-206.03(a), D.C. Official 
Code) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``existing''; and
            (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting the 
        following: ``, or as authorizing the District of Columbia to 
        make any such change.''.
    (3) The amendments made by this subsection shall take effect as if 
included in the enactment of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act.
    Sec. 818.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this title or in title IV shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of this title or of title IV.

                                TITLE IX

                        SOAR REAUTHORIZATION ACT

SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES IN TITLE.

    (a) Short Title.--This title may be cited as the ``Scholarships for 
Opportunity and Results Reauthorization Act'' or the ``SOAR 
Reauthorization Act''.
    (b) References in Title.--Except as otherwise expressly provided, 
whenever in this title an amendment is expressed in terms of an 
amendment to or repeal of a section or other provision, the reference 
shall be considered to be made to that section or other provision of 
the Scholarships for Opportunity and Results Act (division C of Public 
Law 112-10; sec. 38-1853.01 et seq., D.C. Official Code).

SEC. 902. REPEAL.

    Section 817 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public 
Law 114-113) is repealed, and any provision of law amended or repealed 
by such section is restored or revived as if such section had not been 
enacted into law.

SEC. 903. PURPOSES.

    Section 3003 (sec. 38-1853.03, D.C. Official Code) is amended by 
striking ``particularly parents'' and all that follows through ``, 
with'' and inserting ``particularly parents of students who attend an 
elementary school or secondary school identified as one of the lowest-
performing schools under the District of Columbia's accountability 
system, with''.

SEC. 904. PROHIBITING IMPOSITION OF LIMITS ON TYPES OF ELIGIBLE 
              STUDENTS PARTICIPATING IN THE PROGRAM.

    Section 3004(a) (sec. 38-1853.04(a), D.C. Official Code) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Prohibiting imposition of limits on eligible students 
        participating in the program.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In carrying out the program 
                under this division, the Secretary may not limit the 
                number of eligible students receiving scholarships 
                under section 3007(a), and may not prevent otherwise 
                eligible students from participating in the program 
                under this division, based on any of the following:
                            ``(i) The type of school the student 
                        previously attended.
                            ``(ii) Whether or not the student 
                        previously received a scholarship or 
                        participated in the program, including whether 
                        an eligible student was awarded a scholarship 
                        in any previous year but has not used the 
                        scholarship, regardless of the number of years 
                        of nonuse.
                            ``(iii) Whether or not the student was a 
                        member of the control group used by the 
                        Institute of Education Sciences to carry out 
                        previous evaluations of the program under 
                        section 3009.
                    ``(B) Rule of construction.--Nothing in 
                subparagraph (A) may be construed to waive the 
                requirement under section 3005(b)(1)(B) that the 
                eligible entity carrying out the program under this Act 
                must carry out a random selection process, which gives 
                weight to the priorities described in section 3006, if 
                more eligible students seek admission in the program 
                than the program can accommodate.''.

SEC. 905. REQUIRING ELIGIBLE ENTITIES TO UTILIZE INTERNAL FISCAL AND 
              QUALITY CONTROLS.

    Section 3005(b)(1) (sec. 38-1853.05(b)(1), D.C. Official Code) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``, except that a 
        participating school may not be required to submit to more than 
        1 site visit per school year'';
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (K) and (L) as 
        subparagraphs (L) and (M), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the following:
                    ``(K) how the entity will ensure the financial 
                viability of participating schools in which 85 percent 
                or more of the total number of students enrolled at the 
                school are participating eligible students that receive 
                and use an opportunity scholarship;'';
            (4) in subparagraph (L), as redesignated by paragraph (2), 
        by striking ``and'' at the end; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(N) how the eligible entity will ensure that it--
                            ``(i) utilizes internal fiscal and quality 
                        controls; and
                            ``(ii) complies with applicable financial 
                        reporting requirements and the requirements of 
                        this division; and''.

SEC. 906. CLARIFICATION OF PRIORITIES FOR AWARDING SCHOLARSHIPS TO 
              ELIGIBLE STUDENTS.

    Section 3006(1) (sec. 38-1853.06(1), D.C. Official Code) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``attended'' and all 
        that follows through the semicolon and inserting ``attended an 
        elementary school or secondary school identified as one of the 
        lowest-performing schools under the District of Columbia's 
        accountability system; and'';
            (2) by striking subparagraph (B);
            (3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B); 
        and
            (4) in subparagraph (B), as redesignated by paragraph (3), 
        by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting ``or whether 
        such students have, in the past, attended a private school;''.

SEC. 907. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING SCHOOLS AND 
              ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.

    (a) Criminal Background Checks; Compliance With Reporting 
Requirements.--Section 3007(a)(4) (sec. 38-1853.07(a)(4), D.C. Official 
Code) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) by striking subparagraph (F) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(F) ensures that, with respect to core subject 
                matter, participating students are taught by a teacher 
                who has a baccalaureate degree or equivalent degree, 
                whether such degree was awarded in or outside of the 
                United States;''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) conducts criminal background checks on school 
                employees who have direct and unsupervised interaction 
                with students; and
                    ``(H) complies with all requests for data and 
                information regarding the reporting requirements 
                described in section 3010.''.
    (b) Accreditation.--Section 3007(a) (sec. 38-1853.07(a), D.C. 
Official Code), as amended by subsection (a), is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraphs (2) and 
        (3)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (2), (3), and (5)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Accreditation requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--None of the funds provided under 
                this division for opportunity scholarships may be used 
                by a participating eligible student to enroll in a 
                participating private school unless the school--
                            ``(i) in the case of a school that is a 
                        participating school as of the date of 
                        enactment of the SOAR Reauthorization Act--
                                    ``(I) is fully accredited by an 
                                accrediting body described in any of 
                                subparagraphs (A) through (G) of 
                                section 2202(16) of the District of 
                                Columbia School Reform Act of 1995 
                                (Public Law 104-134; sec. 38-
                                1802.02(16)(A)-(G), D.C. Official 
                                Code); or
                                    ``(II) if such participating school 
                                does not meet the requirements of 
                                subclause (I)--
                                            ``(aa) not later than 1 
                                        year after the date of 
                                        enactment of the Consolidated 
                                        Appropriations Act, 2016 
                                        (Public Law 114-113), the 
                                        school is pursuing full 
                                        accreditation by an accrediting 
                                        body described in subclause 
                                        (I); and
                                            ``(bb) is fully accredited 
                                        by such an accrediting body not 
                                        later than 5 years after the 
                                        date on which that school began 
                                        the process of pursuing full 
                                        accreditation in accordance 
                                        with item (aa); and
                            ``(ii) in the case of a school that is not 
                        a participating school as of the date of 
                        enactment of the SOAR Reauthorization Act, is 
                        fully accredited by an accrediting body 
                        described in clause (i)(I) before becoming a 
                        participating school under this division.
                    ``(B) Reports to eligible entity.--Not later than 5 
                years after the date of enactment of the SOAR 
                Reauthorization Act, each participating school shall 
                submit to the eligible entity a certification that the 
                school has been fully accredited in accordance with 
                subparagraph (A).
                    ``(C) Assisting students in enrolling in other 
                schools.--If a participating school fails to meet the 
                requirements of this paragraph, the eligible entity 
                shall assist the parents of the participating eligible 
                students who attend the school in identifying, applying 
                to, and enrolling in another participating school under 
                this division.
            ``(6) Treatment of students awarded a scholarship in a 
        previous year.--An eligible entity shall treat a participating 
        eligible student who was awarded an opportunity scholarship in 
        any previous year and who has not used the scholarship as a 
        renewal student and not as a new applicant, without regard as 
        to--
                    ``(A) whether the eligible student has used the 
                scholarship; and
                    ``(B) the year in which the scholarship was 
                previously awarded.''.
    (c) Requiring Use of Funds Remaining Unobligated From Previous 
Fiscal Years.--
            (1) In general.--Section 3007 (sec. 38-1853.07, D.C. 
        Official Code) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Requiring Use of Funds Remaining Unobligated From Previous 
Fiscal Years.--
            ``(1) In general.--To the extent that any funds 
        appropriated for the opportunity scholarship program under this 
        division for any fiscal year remain available for subsequent 
        fiscal years under section 3014(c), the Secretary shall make 
        such funds available to eligible entities receiving grants 
        under section 3004(a) for the uses described in paragraph (2)--
                    ``(A) in the case of any remaining funds that were 
                appropriated before the date of enactment of the SOAR 
                Reauthorization Act, beginning on the date of enactment 
                of such Act; and
                    ``(B) in the case of any remaining funds 
                appropriated on or after the date of enactment of such 
                Act, by the first day of the first subsequent fiscal 
                year.
            ``(2) Use of funds.--If an eligible entity to which the 
        Secretary provided additional funds under paragraph (1) elects 
        to use such funds during a fiscal year, the eligible entity 
        shall use--
                    ``(A) not less than 95 percent of such additional 
                funds to provide additional scholarships for eligible 
                students under section 3007(a), or to increase the 
                amount of the scholarships, during such year; and
                    ``(B) not more than a total of 5 percent of such 
                additional funds for administrative expenses, parental 
                assistance, or tutoring, as described in subsections 
                (b) and (c), during such year.
            ``(3) Special rule.--Any amounts made available for 
        administrative expenses, parental assistance, or tutoring under 
        paragraph (2)(B) shall be in addition to any other amounts made 
        available for such purposes in accordance with subsections (b) 
        and (c).''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on the date of enactment of this title.
    (d) Use of Funds for Administrative Expenses and Parental 
Assistance.--Section 3007 (sec. 38-1853.07, D.C. Official Code), as 
amended by this section, is further amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (b) and (c) and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(b) Administrative Expenses and Parental Assistance.--The 
Secretary shall make $2,000,000 of the amount made available under 
section 3014(a)(1) for each fiscal year available to eligible entities 
receiving a grant under section 3004(a) to cover the following 
expenses:
            ``(1) The administrative expenses of carrying out its 
        program under this division during the year, including--
                    ``(A) determining the eligibility of students to 
                participate;
                    ``(B) selecting the eligible students to receive 
                scholarships;
                    ``(C) determining the amount of the scholarships 
                and issuing the scholarships to eligible students;
                    ``(D) compiling and maintaining financial and 
                programmatic records;
                    ``(E) conducting site visits as described in 
                section 3005(b)(1)(I); and
                    ``(F)(i) conducting a study, including a survey of 
                participating parents, on any barriers for 
                participating eligible students in gaining admission 
                to, or attending, the participating school that is 
                their first choice; and
                    ``(ii) not later than the end of the first full 
                fiscal year after the date of enactment of the SOAR 
                Reauthorization Act, submitting a report to Congress 
                that contains the results of such study.
            ``(2) The expenses of educating parents about the eligible 
        entity's program under this division, and assisting parents 
        through the application process under this division, 
        including--
                    ``(A) providing information about the program and 
                the participating schools to parents of eligible 
                students, including information on supplemental 
                financial aid that may be available at participating 
                schools;
                    ``(B) providing funds to assist parents of students 
                in meeting expenses that might otherwise preclude the 
                participation of eligible students in the program; and
                    ``(C) streamlining the application process for 
                parents.''; and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (d), and subsection (e) (as 
        added by subsection (c)(1)), as subsections (c) and (d), 
        respectively.
    (e) Clarification of Use of Funds for Student Academic 
Assistance.--Section 3007(c) (sec. 38-1853.07(c), D.C. Official Code), 
as redesignated by subsection (d)(2), is amended by striking 
``previously attended'' and all that follows through the period at the 
end and inserting ``previously attended an elementary school or 
secondary school identified as one of the lowest-performing schools 
under the District of Columbia's accountability system.''.

SEC. 908. PROGRAM EVALUATION.

    (a) Revision of Evaluation Procedures and Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--Section 3009(a) (sec. 38-1853.09(a), D.C. 
        Official Code) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Duties of the secretary and the mayor.--The Secretary 
        and the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall--
                    ``(A) jointly enter into an agreement with the 
                Institute of Education Sciences of the Department of 
                Education to evaluate annually the opportunity 
                scholarship program under this division;
                    ``(B) jointly enter into an agreement to monitor 
                and evaluate the use of funds authorized and 
                appropriated for the District of Columbia public 
                schools and the District of Columbia public charter 
                schools under this division; and
                    ``(C) make the evaluations described in 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) public in accordance with 
                subsection (c).
            ``(2) Duties of the secretary.--The Secretary, through a 
        grant, contract, or cooperative agreement, shall--
                    ``(A) ensure that the evaluation under paragraph 
                (1)(A)--
                            ``(i) is conducted using an acceptable 
                        quasi-experimental research design for 
                        determining the effectiveness of the 
                        opportunity scholarship program under this 
                        division that does not use a control study 
                        group consisting of students who applied for 
                        but did not receive opportunity scholarships; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) addresses the issues described in 
                        paragraph (4); and
                    ``(B) disseminate information on the impact of the 
                program--
                            ``(i) in increasing academic achievement 
                        and educational attainment of participating 
                        eligible students who use an opportunity 
                        scholarship; and
                            ``(ii) on students and schools in the 
                        District of Columbia.
            ``(3) Duties of the institute of education sciences.--The 
        Institute of Education Sciences of the Department of Education 
        shall--
                    ``(A) assess participating eligible students who 
                use an opportunity scholarship in each of grades 3 
                through 8, as well as one of the grades at the high 
                school level, by supervising the administration of the 
                same reading and mathematics assessment used by the 
                District of Columbia public schools to comply with 
                section 1111(b) of the Elementary and Secondary 
                Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6311(b));
                    ``(B) measure the academic achievement of all 
                participating eligible students who use an opportunity 
                scholarship in the grades described in subparagraph 
                (A); and
                    ``(C) work with eligible entities receiving a grant 
                under this division to ensure that the parents of each 
                student who is a participating eligible student that 
                uses an opportunity scholarship agrees to permit their 
                child to participate in the evaluations and assessments 
                carried out by the Institute of Education Sciences 
                under this subsection.
            ``(4) Issues to be evaluated.--The issues to be evaluated 
        under paragraph (1)(A) shall include the following:
                    ``(A) A comparison of the academic achievement of 
                participating eligible students who use an opportunity 
                scholarship on the measurements described in paragraph 
                (3)(B) to the academic achievement of a comparison 
                group of students with similar backgrounds in the 
                District of Columbia public schools.
                    ``(B) The success of the program under this 
                division in expanding choice options for parents of 
                participating eligible students and increasing the 
                satisfaction of such parents and students with their 
                choice.
                    ``(C) The reasons parents of participating eligible 
                students choose for their children to participate in 
                the program, including important characteristics for 
                selecting schools.
                    ``(D) A comparison of the retention rates, high 
                school graduation rates, college enrollment rates, 
                college persistence rates, and college graduation rates 
                of participating eligible students who use an 
                opportunity scholarship with the rates of students in 
                the comparison group described in subparagraph (A).
                    ``(E) A comparison of the college enrollment rates, 
                college persistence rates, and college graduation rates 
                of students who participated in the program in 2004, 
                2005, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015 as the result of 
                winning the Opportunity Scholarship Program lottery 
                with such enrollment, persistence, and graduation rates 
                for students who entered but did not win such lottery 
                in those years and who, as a result, served as the 
                control group for previous evaluations of the program 
                under this division. Nothing in this subparagraph may 
                be construed to waive section 3004(a)(3)(A)(iii) with 
                respect to any such student.
                    ``(F) A comparison of the safety of the schools 
                attended by participating eligible students who use an 
                opportunity scholarship and the schools in the District 
                of Columbia attended by students in the comparison 
                group described in subparagraph (A), based on the 
                perceptions of the students and parents.
                    ``(G) An assessment of student academic achievement 
                at participating schools in which 85 percent of the 
                total number of students enrolled at the school are 
                participating eligible students who receive and use an 
                opportunity scholarship.
                    ``(H) Such other issues with respect to 
                participating eligible students who use an opportunity 
                scholarship as the Secretary considers appropriate for 
                inclusion in the evaluation, such as the impact of the 
                program on public elementary schools and secondary 
                schools in the District of Columbia.
            ``(5) Prohibiting disclosure of personal information.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any disclosure of personally 
                identifiable information obtained under this division 
                shall be in compliance with section 444 of the General 
                Education Provisions Act (commonly known as the `Family 
                Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974') (20 U.S.C. 
                1232g).
                    ``(B) Students not attending public schools.--With 
                respect to any student who is not attending a public 
                elementary school or secondary school, personally 
                identifiable information obtained under this division 
                shall only be disclosed to--
                            ``(i) individuals carrying out the 
                        evaluation described in paragraph (1)(A) for 
                        such student;
                            ``(ii) the group of individuals providing 
                        information for carrying out the evaluation of 
                        such student; and
                            ``(iii) the parents of such student.''.
            (2) Transition of evaluation.--
                    (A) Termination of previous evaluations.--The 
                Secretary of Education shall--
                            (i) terminate the evaluations conducted 
                        under section 3009(a) of the Scholarships for 
                        Opportunity and Results Act (sec. 38-
                        1853.09(a), D.C. Official Code), as in effect 
                        on the day before the date of enactment of this 
                        title, after obtaining data for the 2016-2017 
                        school year; and
                            (ii) submit any reports required for the 
                        2016-2017 school year or preceding years with 
                        respect to the evaluations in accordance with 
                        section 3009(b) of such Act.
                    (B) New evaluations.--
                            (i) In general.--Effective beginning with 
                        respect to the 2017-2018 school year, the 
                        Secretary shall conduct new evaluations in 
                        accordance with the provisions of section 
                        3009(a) of the Scholarships for Opportunity and 
                        Results Act (sec. 38-1853.09(a), D.C. Official 
                        Code), as amended by this title.
                            (ii) Most recent evaluation.--As a 
                        component of the new evaluations described in 
                        clause (i), the Secretary shall continue to 
                        monitor and evaluate the students who were 
                        evaluated in the most recent evaluation under 
                        such section prior to the date of enactment of 
                        this title, including by monitoring and 
                        evaluating the test scores and other 
                        information of such students.
    (b) Duty of Mayor To Ensure Institute Has All Information Necessary 
To Carry Out Evaluations.--Section 3011(a)(1) (sec. 38-1853.11(a)(1), 
D.C. Official Code) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Information necessary to carry out evaluations.--
        Ensure that all District of Columbia public schools and 
        District of Columbia public charter schools make available to 
        the Institute of Education Sciences of the Department of 
        Education all of the information the Institute requires to 
        carry out the assessments and perform the evaluations required 
        under section 3009(a).''.

SEC. 909. FUNDING FOR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND PUBLIC 
              CHARTER SCHOOLS.

    (a) Mandatory Withholding of Funds for Failure To Comply With 
Conditions.--Section 3011(b) (sec. 38-1853.11(b), D.C. Official Code) 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Enforcement.--If, after reasonable notice and an opportunity 
for a hearing, the Secretary determines that the Mayor has failed to 
comply with any of the requirements of subsection (a), the Secretary 
may withhold from the Mayor, in whole or in part--
            ``(1) the funds otherwise authorized to be appropriated 
        under section 3014(a)(2), if the failure to comply relates to 
        the District of Columbia public schools;
            ``(2) the funds otherwise authorized to be appropriated 
        under section 3014(a)(3), if the failure to comply relates to 
        the District of Columbia public charter schools; or
            ``(3) the funds otherwise authorized to be appropriated 
        under both paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 3014(a), if the 
        failure relates to both the District of Columbia public schools 
        and the District of Columbia public charter schools.''.
    (b) Rules for Use of Funds Provided for Support of Public Charter 
Schools.--Section 3011 (sec. 38-1853.11, D.C. Official Code), as 
amended by section 7(b) and section 8(a), is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Specific Rules Regarding Funds Provided for Support of Public 
Charter Schools.--The following rules shall apply with respect to the 
funds provided under this division for the support of District of 
Columbia public charter schools:
            ``(1) The Secretary may direct the funds provided for any 
        fiscal year, or any portion thereof, to the Office of the State 
        Superintendent of Education of the District of Columbia.
            ``(2) The Office of the State Superintendent of Education 
        of the District of Columbia may transfer the funds to 
        subgrantees that are--
                    ``(A) specific District of Columbia public charter 
                schools or networks of such schools; or
                    ``(B) District of Columbia-based nonprofit 
                organizations with experience in successfully providing 
                support or assistance to District of Columbia public 
                charter schools or networks of such schools.
            ``(3) The funds provided under this division for the 
        support of District of Columbia public charter schools shall be 
        available to any District of Columbia public charter school in 
        good standing with the District of Columbia Charter School 
        Board, and the Office of the State Superintendent of Education 
        of the District of Columbia and the District of Columbia 
        Charter School Board may not restrict the availability of such 
        funds to certain types of schools on the basis of the school's 
        location, governing body, or the school's facilities.''.

SEC. 910. REVISION OF CURRENT MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.

    Not later than the beginning of the 2017-2018 school year, the 
Secretary of Education and the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall 
revise the memorandum of understanding which is in effect under section 
3012(d) of the Scholarships for Opportunity and Results Act as of the 
day before the date of the enactment of this title to address the 
following:
            (1) The amendments made by this title.
            (2) The need to ensure that participating schools under the 
        Scholarships for Opportunity and Results Act meet fire code 
        standards and maintain certificates of occupancy.
            (3) The need to ensure that District of Columbia public 
        schools and District of Columbia public charter schools meet 
        the requirements under such Act to comply with all reasonable 
        requests for information necessary to carry out the evaluations 
        required under section 3009(a) of such Act.

SEC. 911. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 3013 (sec. 38-1853.13, D.C. Official Code) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (10) as 
        paragraphs (2) through (11), respectively;
            (2) by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1), the following:
            ``(1) Core subject matter.--The term `core subject matter' 
        means--
                    ``(A) mathematics;
                    ``(B) science; and
                    ``(C) English, reading, or language arts.''; and
            (3) in paragraph (4)(B)(ii), as redesignated by paragraph 
        (1), by inserting ``household with a'' before ``student''.

SEC. 912. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3014 (sec. 38-1853.14, D.C. Official Code) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``and for each of the 4 
        succeeding fiscal years'' and inserting ``and for each fiscal 
        year through fiscal year 2021''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Availability.--Amounts appropriated under subsection (a)(1), 
including amounts appropriated and available under such subsection 
before the date of enactment of the SOAR Reauthorization Act, shall 
remain available until expended.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a)(2) shall 
take effect on the date of enactment of this title.

SEC. 913. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Except as otherwise provided, the amendments made by this title 
shall apply with respect to school year 2017-2018 and each succeeding 
school year.

                                TITLE X

                    SEC SMALL BUSINESS ADVOCATE ACT

SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``SEC Small Business Advocate Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 1002. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF THE ADVOCATE FOR SMALL BUSINESS 
              CAPITAL FORMATION AND SMALL BUSINESS CAPITAL FORMATION 
              ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation.--
Section 4 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78d) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital 
Formation.--
            ``(1) Office established.--There is established within the 
        Commission the Office of the Advocate for Small Business 
        Capital Formation (hereafter in this subsection referred to as 
        the `Office').
            ``(2) Advocate for small business capital formation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The head of the Office shall be 
                the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation, who 
                shall--
                            ``(i) report directly to the Commission; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) be appointed by the Commission, from 
                        among individuals having experience in 
                        advocating for the interests of small 
                        businesses and encouraging small business 
                        capital formation.
                    ``(B) Compensation.--The annual rate of pay for the 
                Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation shall be 
                equal to the highest rate of annual pay for other 
                senior executives who report directly to the 
                Commission.
                    ``(C) No current employee of the commission.--An 
                individual may not be appointed as the Advocate for 
                Small Business Capital Formation if the individual is 
                currently employed by the Commission.
            ``(3) Staff of office.--The Advocate for Small Business 
        Capital Formation, after consultation with the Commission, may 
        retain or employ independent counsel, research staff, and 
        service staff, as the Advocate for Small Business Capital 
        Formation determines to be necessary to carry out the functions 
        of the Office.
            ``(4) Functions of the advocate for small business capital 
        formation.--The Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation 
        shall--
                    ``(A) assist small businesses and small business 
                investors in resolving significant problems such 
                businesses and investors may have with the Commission 
                or with self-regulatory organizations;
                    ``(B) identify areas in which small businesses and 
                small business investors would benefit from changes in 
                the regulations of the Commission or the rules of self-
                regulatory organizations;
                    ``(C) identify problems that small businesses have 
                with securing access to capital, including any unique 
                challenges to minority-owned and women-owned small 
                businesses;
                    ``(D) analyze the potential impact on small 
                businesses and small business investors of--
                            ``(i) proposed regulations of the 
                        Commission that are likely to have a 
                        significant economic impact on small businesses 
                        and small business capital formation; and
                            ``(ii) proposed rules that are likely to 
                        have a significant economic impact on small 
                        businesses and small business capital formation 
                        of self-regulatory organizations registered 
                        under this title;
                    ``(E) conduct outreach to small businesses and 
                small business investors, including through regional 
                roundtables, in order to solicit views on relevant 
                capital formation issues;
                    ``(F) to the extent practicable, propose to the 
                Commission changes in the regulations or orders of the 
                Commission and to Congress any legislative, 
                administrative, or personnel changes that may be 
                appropriate to mitigate problems identified under this 
                paragraph and to promote the interests of small 
                businesses and small business investors;
                    ``(G) consult with the Investor Advocate on 
                proposed recommendations made under subparagraph (F); 
                and
                    ``(H) advise the Investor Advocate on issues 
                related to small businesses and small business 
                investors.
            ``(5) Access to documents.--The Commission shall ensure 
        that the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation has full 
        access to the documents and information of the Commission and 
        any self-regulatory organization, as necessary to carry out the 
        functions of the Office.
            ``(6) Annual report on activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than December 31 of 
                each year after 2015, the Advocate for Small Business 
                Capital Formation shall submit to the Committee on 
                Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and 
                the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the activities of the 
                Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation during 
                the immediately preceding fiscal year.
                    ``(B) Contents.--Each report required under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include--
                            ``(i) appropriate statistical information 
                        and full and substantive analysis;
                            ``(ii) information on steps that the 
                        Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation 
                        has taken during the reporting period to 
                        improve small business services and the 
                        responsiveness of the Commission and self-
                        regulatory organizations to small business and 
                        small business investor concerns;
                            ``(iii) a summary of the most serious 
                        issues encountered by small businesses and 
                        small business investors, including any unique 
                        issues encountered by minority-owned and women-
                        owned small businesses and their investors, 
                        during the reporting period;
                            ``(iv) an inventory of the items summarized 
                        under clause (iii) (including items summarized 
                        under such clause for any prior reporting 
                        period on which no action has been taken or 
                        that have not been resolved to the satisfaction 
                        of the Advocate for Small Business Capital 
                        Formation as of the beginning of the reporting 
                        period covered by the report) that includes--
                                    ``(I) identification of any action 
                                taken by the Commission or the self-
                                regulatory organization and the result 
                                of such action;
                                    ``(II) the length of time that each 
                                item has remained on such inventory; 
                                and
                                    ``(III) for items on which no 
                                action has been taken, the reasons for 
                                inaction, and an identification of any 
                                official who is responsible for such 
                                action;
                            ``(v) recommendations for such changes to 
                        the regulations, guidance and orders of the 
                        Commission and such legislative actions as may 
                        be appropriate to resolve problems with the 
                        Commission and self-regulatory organizations 
                        encountered by small businesses and small 
                        business investors and to encourage small 
                        business capital formation; and
                            ``(vi) any other information, as determined 
                        appropriate by the Advocate for Small Business 
                        Capital Formation.
                    ``(C) Confidentiality.--No report required by 
                subparagraph (A) may contain confidential information.
                    ``(D) Independence.--Each report required under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be provided directly to the 
                committees of Congress listed in such subparagraph 
                without any prior review or comment from the 
                Commission, any commissioner, any other officer or 
                employee of the Commission, or the Office of Management 
                and Budget.
            ``(7) Regulations.--The Commission shall establish 
        procedures requiring a formal response to all recommendations 
        submitted to the Commission by the Advocate for Small Business 
        Capital Formation, not later than 3 months after the date of 
        such submission.
            ``(8) Government-business forum on small business capital 
        formation.--The Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation 
        shall be responsible for planning, organizing, and executing 
        the annual Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital 
        Formation described in section 503 of the Small Business 
        Investment Incentive Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 80c-1).
            ``(9) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection may 
        be construed as replacing or reducing the responsibilities of 
        the Investor Advocate with respect to small business 
        investors.''.
    (b) Small Business Capital Formation Advisory Committee.--Title I 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 40. SMALL BUSINESS CAPITAL FORMATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    ``(a) Establishment and Purpose.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--There is established within the 
        Commission the Small Business Capital Formation Advisory 
        Committee (hereafter in this section referred to as the 
        `Committee').
            ``(2) Functions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Committee shall provide the 
                Commission with advice on the Commission's rules, 
                regulations, and policies with regard to the 
                Commission's mission of protecting investors, 
                maintaining fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and 
                facilitating capital formation, as such rules, 
                regulations, and policies relate to--
                            ``(i) capital raising by emerging, 
                        privately held small businesses (`emerging 
                        companies') and publicly traded companies with 
                        less than $250,000,000 in public market 
                        capitalization (`smaller public companies') 
                        through securities offerings, including private 
                        and limited offerings and initial and other 
                        public offerings;
                            ``(ii) trading in the securities of 
                        emerging companies and smaller public 
                        companies; and
                            ``(iii) public reporting and corporate 
                        governance requirements of emerging companies 
                        and smaller public companies.
                    ``(B) Limitation.--The Committee shall not provide 
                any advice with respect to any policies, practices, 
                actions, or decisions concerning the Commission's 
                enforcement program.
    ``(b) Membership.--
            ``(1) In general.--The members of the Committee shall be--
                    ``(A) the Advocate for Small Business Capital 
                Formation;
                    ``(B) not fewer than 10, and not more than 20, 
                members appointed by the Commission, from among 
                individuals--
                            ``(i) who represent--
                                    ``(I) emerging companies engaging 
                                in private and limited securities 
                                offerings or considering initial public 
                                offerings (`IPO') (including the 
                                companies' officers and directors);
                                    ``(II) the professional advisors of 
                                such companies (including attorneys, 
                                accountants, investment bankers, and 
                                financial advisors); and
                                    ``(III) the investors in such 
                                companies (including angel investors, 
                                venture capital funds, and family 
                                offices);
                            ``(ii) who are officers or directors of 
                        minority-owned small businesses or women-owned 
                        small businesses;
                            ``(iii) who represent--
                                    ``(I) smaller public companies 
                                (including the companies' officers and 
                                directors);
                                    ``(II) the professional advisors of 
                                such companies (including attorneys, 
                                auditors, underwriters, and financial 
                                advisors); and
                                    ``(III) the pre-IPO and post-IPO 
                                investors in such companies (both 
                                institutional, such as venture capital 
                                funds, and individual, such as angel 
                                investors); and
                            ``(iv) who represent participants in the 
                        marketplace for the securities of emerging 
                        companies and smaller public companies, such as 
                        securities exchanges, alternative trading 
                        systems, analysts, information processors, and 
                        transfer agents; and
                    ``(C) three non-voting members--
                            ``(i) one of whom shall be appointed by the 
                        Investor Advocate;
                            ``(ii) one of whom shall be appointed by 
                        the North American Securities Administrators 
                        Association; and
                            ``(iii) one of whom shall be appointed by 
                        the Administrator of the Small Business 
                        Administration.
            ``(2) Term.--Each member of the Committee appointed under 
        subparagraph (B), (C)(ii), or (C)(iii) of paragraph (1) shall 
        serve for a term of 4 years.
            ``(3) Members not commission employees.--Members appointed 
        under subparagraph (B), (C)(ii), or (C)(iii) of paragraph (1) 
        shall not be treated as employees or agents of the Commission 
        solely because of membership on the Committee.
    ``(c) Chairman; Vice Chairman; Secretary; Assistant Secretary.--
            ``(1) In general.--The members of the Committee shall 
        elect, from among the members of the Committee--
                    ``(A) a chairman;
                    ``(B) a vice chairman;
                    ``(C) a secretary; and
                    ``(D) an assistant secretary.
            ``(2) Term.--Each member elected under paragraph (1) shall 
        serve for a term of 3 years in the capacity for which the 
        member was elected under paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Meetings.--
            ``(1) Frequency of meetings.--The Committee shall meet--
                    ``(A) not less frequently than four times annually, 
                at the call of the chairman of the Committee; and
                    ``(B) from time to time, at the call of the 
                Commission.
            ``(2) Notice.--The chairman of the Committee shall give the 
        members of the Committee written notice of each meeting, not 
        later than 2 weeks before the date of the meeting.
    ``(e) Compensation and Travel Expenses.--Each member of the 
Committee who is not a full-time employee of the United States shall--
            ``(1) be entitled to receive compensation at a rate not to 
        exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in 
        effect for a position at level V of the Executive Schedule 
        under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code, for each day 
        during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of 
        the duties of the Committee; and
            ``(2) while away from the home or regular place of business 
        of the member in the performance of services for the Committee, 
        be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed 
        intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses 
        under section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(f) Staff.--The Commission shall make available to the Committee 
such staff as the chairman of the Committee determines are necessary to 
carry out this section.
    ``(g) Review by Commission.--The Commission shall--
            ``(1) review the findings and recommendations of the 
        Committee; and
            ``(2) each time the Committee submits a finding or 
        recommendation to the Commission, promptly issue a public 
        statement--
                    ``(A) assessing the finding or recommendation of 
                the Committee; and
                    ``(B) disclosing the action, if any, the Commission 
                intends to take with respect to the finding or 
                recommendation.
    ``(h) Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply with respect to the 
Committee and its activities.''.
    (c) Annual Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital 
Formation.--Section 503(a) of the Small Business Investment Incentive 
Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 80c-1(a)) is amended by inserting ``(acting 
through the Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation 
and in consultation with the Small Business Capital Formation Advisory 
Committee)'' after ``Securities and Exchange Commission''.

                                TITLE XI

                  FINANCIAL INSTITUTION BANKRUPTCY ACT

SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Financial Institution Bankruptcy 
Act of 2016''.

SEC. 1102. GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO COVERED FINANCIAL 
              CORPORATIONS.

    (a) Definition.--Section 101 of title 11, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting the following after paragraph (9):
            ``(9A) The term `covered financial corporation' means any 
        corporation incorporated or organized under any Federal or 
        State law, other than a stockbroker, a commodity broker, or an 
        entity of the kind specified in paragraph (2) or (3) of section 
        109(b), that is--
                    ``(A) a bank holding company, as defined in section 
                2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956; or
                    ``(B) a corporation that exists for the primary 
                purpose of owning, controlling and financing its 
                subsidiaries, that has total consolidated assets of 
                $50,000,000,000 or greater, and for which, in its most 
                recently completed fiscal year--
                            ``(i) annual gross revenues derived by the 
                        corporation and all of its subsidiaries from 
                        activities that are financial in nature (as 
                        defined in section 4(k) of the Bank Holding 
                        Company Act of 1956) and, if applicable, from 
                        the ownership or control of one or more insured 
                        depository institutions, represents 85 percent 
                        or more of the consolidated annual gross 
                        revenues of the corporation; or
                            ``(ii) the consolidated assets of the 
                        corporation and all of its subsidiaries related 
                        to activities that are financial in nature (as 
                        defined in section 4(k) of the Bank Holding 
                        Company Act of 1956) and, if applicable, 
                        related to the ownership or control of one or 
                        more insured depository institutions, 
                        represents 85 percent or more of the 
                        consolidated assets of the corporation.''.
    (b) Applicability of Chapters.--Section 103 of title 11, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(l) Subchapter V of chapter 11 of this title applies only in a 
case under chapter 11 concerning a covered financial corporation.''.
    (c) Who May Be a Debtor.--Section 109 of title 11, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) a covered financial corporation.''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' before ``an uninsured State 
                member bank'';
                    (B) by striking ``or'' before ``a corporation''; 
                and
                    (C) by inserting ``, or a covered financial 
                corporation'' after ``Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation Improvement Act of 1991''.
    (d) Conversion to Chapter 7.--Section 1112 of title 11, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Notwithstanding section 109(b), the court may convert a case 
under subchapter V to a case under chapter 7 if--
            ``(1) a transfer approved under section 1185 has been 
        consummated;
            ``(2) the court has ordered the appointment of a special 
        trustee under section 1186; and
            ``(3) the court finds, after notice and a hearing, that 
        conversion is in the best interest of the creditors and the 
        estate.''.
    (e)(1) Section 726(a)(1) of title 11, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after ``first,'' the following: ``in payment of 
any unpaid fees, costs, and expenses of a special trustee appointed 
under section 1186, and then''.
    (2) Section 1129(a) of title 11, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting after paragraph (16) the following:
            ``(17) In a case under subchapter V, all payable fees, 
        costs, and expenses of the special trustee have been paid or 
        the plan provides for the payment of all such fees, costs, and 
        expenses on the effective date of the plan.
            ``(18) In a case under subchapter V, confirmation of the 
        plan is not likely to cause serious adverse effects on 
        financial stability in the United States.''.
    (f) Section 322(b)(2) of title 11, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``The'' and inserting ``In cases under subchapter V, the 
United States trustee shall recommend to the court, and in all other 
cases, the''.

SEC. 1103. LIQUIDATION, REORGANIZATION, OR RECAPITALIZATION OF A 
              COVERED FINANCIAL CORPORATION.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 11 of title 11, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

 ``SUBCHAPTER V--LIQUIDATION, REORGANIZATION, OR RECAPITALIZATION OF A 
                     COVERED FINANCIAL CORPORATION

``Sec. 1181. Inapplicability of other sections
    ``Sections 303 and 321(c) do not apply in a case under this 
subchapter concerning a covered financial corporation. Section 365 does 
not apply to a transfer under section 1185, 1187, or 1188.
``Sec. 1182. Definitions for this subchapter
    ``In this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply:
            ``(1) The term `Board' means the Board of Governors of the 
        Federal Reserve System.
            ``(2) The term `bridge company' means a newly formed 
        corporation to which property of the estate may be transferred 
        under section 1185(a) and the equity securities of which may be 
        transferred to a special trustee under section 1186(a).
            ``(3) The term `capital structure debt' means all unsecured 
        debt of the debtor for borrowed money for which the debtor is 
        the primary obligor, other than a qualified financial contract 
        and other than debt secured by a lien on property of the estate 
        that is to be transferred to a bridge company pursuant to an 
        order of the court under section 1185(a).
            ``(4) The term `contractual right' means a contractual 
        right of a kind defined in section 555, 556, 559, 560, or 561.
            ``(5) The term `qualified financial contract' means any 
        contract of a kind defined in paragraph (25), (38A), (47), or 
        (53B) of section 101, section 741(7), or paragraph (4), (5), 
        (11), or (13) of section 761.
            ``(6) The term `special trustee' means the trustee of a 
        trust formed under section 1186(a)(1).
``Sec. 1183. Commencement of a case concerning a covered financial 
              corporation
    ``(a) A case under this subchapter concerning a covered financial 
corporation may be commenced by the filing of a petition with the court 
by the debtor under section 301 only if the debtor states to the best 
of its knowledge under penalty of perjury in the petition that it is a 
covered financial corporation.
    ``(b) The commencement of a case under subsection (a) constitutes 
an order for relief under this subchapter.
    ``(c) The members of the board of directors (or body performing 
similar functions) of a covered financial company shall have no 
liability to shareholders, creditors, or other parties in interest for 
a good faith filing of a petition to commence a case under this 
subchapter, or for any reasonable action taken in good faith in 
contemplation of or in connection with such a petition or a transfer 
under section 1185 or section 1186, whether prior to or after 
commencement of the case.
    ``(d) Counsel to the debtor shall provide, to the greatest extent 
practicable without disclosing the identity of the potential debtor, 
sufficient confidential notice to the chief judge of the court of 
appeals for the circuit embracing the district in which such counsel 
intends to file a petition to commence a case under this subchapter 
regarding the potential commencement of such case. The chief judge of 
such court shall randomly assign to preside over such case a bankruptcy 
judge selected from among the bankruptcy judges designated by the Chief 
Justice of the United States under section 298 of title 28.
``Sec. 1184. Regulators
    ``The Board, the Securities Exchange Commission, the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency of the Department of the Treasury, the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation may raise and may appear and be heard on any issue in any 
case or proceeding under this subchapter.
``Sec. 1185. Special transfer of property of the estate
    ``(a) On request of the trustee, and after notice and a hearing 
that shall occur not less than 24 hours after the order for relief, the 
court may order a transfer under this section of property of the 
estate, and the assignment of executory contracts, unexpired leases, 
and qualified financial contracts of the debtor, to a bridge company. 
Upon the entry of an order approving such transfer, any property 
transferred, and any executory contracts, unexpired leases, and 
qualified financial contracts assigned under such order shall no longer 
be property of the estate. Except as provided under this section, the 
provisions of section 363 shall apply to a transfer and assignment 
under this section.
    ``(b) Unless the court orders otherwise, notice of a request for an 
order under subsection (a) shall consist of electronic or telephonic 
notice of not less than 24 hours to--
            ``(1) the debtor;
            ``(2) the holders of the 20 largest secured claims against 
        the debtor;
            ``(3) the holders of the 20 largest unsecured claims 
        against the debtor;
            ``(4) counterparties to any debt, executory contract, 
        unexpired lease, and qualified financial contract requested to 
        be transferred under this section;
            ``(5) the Board;
            ``(6) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
            ``(7) the Secretary of the Treasury and the Office of the 
        Comptroller of the Currency of the Treasury;
            ``(8) the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
            ``(9) the Securities and Exchange Commission;
            ``(10) the United States trustee or bankruptcy 
        administrator; and
            ``(11) each primary financial regulatory agency, as defined 
        in section 2(12) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
        Consumer Protection Act, with respect to any affiliate the 
        equity securities of which are proposed to be transferred under 
        this section.
    ``(c) The court may not order a transfer under this section unless 
the court determines, based upon a preponderance of the evidence, 
that--
            ``(1) the transfer under this section is necessary to 
        prevent serious adverse effects on financial stability in the 
        United States;
            ``(2) the transfer does not provide for the assumption of 
        any capital structure debt by the bridge company;
            ``(3) the transfer does not provide for the transfer to the 
        bridge company of any property of the estate that is subject to 
        a lien securing a debt, executory contract, unexpired lease or 
        agreement (including a qualified financial contract) of the 
        debtor unless--
                    ``(A)(i) the bridge company assumes such debt, 
                executory contract, unexpired lease or agreement 
                (including a qualified financial contract), including 
                any claims arising in respect thereof that would not be 
                allowed secured claims under section 506(a)(1) and 
                after giving effect to such transfer, such property 
                remains subject to the lien securing such debt, 
                executory contract, unexpired lease or agreement 
                (including a qualified financial contract); and
                    ``(ii) the court has determined that assumption of 
                such debt, executory contract, unexpired lease or 
                agreement (including a qualified financial contract) by 
                the bridge company is in the best interests of the 
                estate; or
                    ``(B) such property is being transferred to the 
                bridge company in accordance with the provisions of 
                section 363;
            ``(4) the transfer does not provide for the assumption by 
        the bridge company of any debt, executory contract, unexpired 
        lease or agreement (including a qualified financial contract) 
        of the debtor secured by a lien on property of the estate 
        unless the transfer provides for such property to be 
        transferred to the bridge company in accordance with paragraph 
        (3)(A) of this subsection;
            ``(5) the transfer does not provide for the transfer of the 
        equity of the debtor;
            ``(6) the trustee has demonstrated that the bridge company 
        is not likely to fail to meet the obligations of any debt, 
        executory contract, qualified financial contract, or unexpired 
        lease assumed and assigned to the bridge company;
            ``(7) the transfer provides for the transfer to a special 
        trustee all of the equity securities in the bridge company and 
        appointment of a special trustee in accordance with section 
        1186;
            ``(8) after giving effect to the transfer, adequate 
        provision has been made for the fees, costs, and expenses of 
        the estate and special trustee; and
            ``(9) the bridge company will have governing documents, and 
        initial directors and senior officers, that are in the best 
        interest of creditors and the estate.
    ``(d) Immediately before a transfer under this section, the bridge 
company that is the recipient of the transfer shall--
            ``(1) not have any property, executory contracts, unexpired 
        leases, qualified financial contracts, or debts, other than any 
        property acquired or executory contracts, unexpired leases, or 
        debts assumed when acting as a transferee of a transfer under 
        this section; and
            ``(2) have equity securities that are property of the 
        estate, which may be sold or distributed in accordance with 
        this title.
``Sec. 1186. Special trustee
    ``(a)(1) An order approving a transfer under section 1185 shall 
require the trustee to transfer to a qualified and independent special 
trustee, who is appointed by the court, all of the equity securities in 
the bridge company that is the recipient of a transfer under section 
1185 to hold in trust for the sole benefit of the estate, subject to 
satisfaction of the special trustee's fees, costs, and expenses. The 
trust of which the special trustee is the trustee shall be a newly 
formed trust governed by a trust agreement approved by the court as in 
the best interests of the estate, and shall exist for the sole purpose 
of holding and administering, and shall be permitted to dispose of, the 
equity securities of the bridge company in accordance with the trust 
agreement.
    ``(2) In connection with the hearing to approve a transfer under 
section 1185, the trustee shall confirm to the court that the Board has 
been consulted regarding the identity of the proposed special trustee 
and advise the court of the results of such consultation.
    ``(b) The trust agreement governing the trust shall provide--
            ``(1) for the payment of the fees, costs, expenses, and 
        indemnities of the special trustee from the assets of the 
        debtor's estate;
            ``(2) that the special trustee provide--
                    ``(A) quarterly reporting to the estate, which 
                shall be filed with the court; and
                    ``(B) information about the bridge company 
                reasonably requested by a party in interest to prepare 
                a disclosure statement for a plan providing for 
                distribution of any securities of the bridge company if 
                such information is necessary to prepare such 
                disclosure statement;
            ``(3) that for as long as the equity securities of the 
        bridge company are held by the trust, the special trustee shall 
        file a notice with the court in connection with--
                    ``(A) any change in a director or senior officer of 
                the bridge company;
                    ``(B) any modification to the governing documents 
                of the bridge company; and
                    ``(C) any material corporate action of the bridge 
                company, including--
                            ``(i) recapitalization;
                            ``(ii) a material borrowing;
                            ``(iii) termination of an intercompany debt 
                        or guarantee;
                            ``(iv) a transfer of a substantial portion 
                        of the assets of the bridge company; or
                            ``(v) the issuance or sale of any 
                        securities of the bridge company;
            ``(4) that any sale of any equity securities of the bridge 
        company shall not be consummated until the special trustee 
        consults with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the 
        Board regarding such sale and discloses the results of such 
        consultation with the court;
            ``(5) that, subject to reserves for payments permitted 
        under paragraph (1) provided for in the trust agreement, the 
        proceeds of the sale of any equity securities of the bridge 
        company by the special trustee be held in trust for the benefit 
        of or transferred to the estate;
            ``(6) the process and guidelines for the replacement of the 
        special trustee; and
            ``(7) that the property held in trust by the special 
        trustee is subject to distribution in accordance with 
        subsection (c).
    ``(c)(1) The special trustee shall distribute the assets held in 
trust--
            ``(A) if the court confirms a plan in the case, in 
        accordance with the plan on the effective date of the plan; or
            ``(B) if the case is converted to a case under chapter 7, 
        as ordered by the court.
    ``(2) As soon as practicable after a final distribution under 
paragraph (1), the office of the special trustee shall terminate, 
except as may be necessary to wind up and conclude the business and 
financial affairs of the trust.
    ``(d) After a transfer to the special trustee under this section, 
the special trustee shall be subject only to applicable nonbankruptcy 
law, and the actions and conduct of the special trustee shall no longer 
be subject to approval by the court in the case under this subchapter.
``Sec. 1187. Temporary and supplemental automatic stay; assumed debt
    ``(a)(1) A petition filed under section 1183 operates as a stay, 
applicable to all entities, of the termination, acceleration, or 
modification of any debt, contract, lease, or agreement of the kind 
described in paragraph (2), or of any right or obligation under any 
such debt, contract, lease, or agreement, solely because of--
            ``(A) a default by the debtor under any such debt, 
        contract, lease, or agreement; or
            ``(B) a provision in such debt, contract, lease, or 
        agreement, or in applicable nonbankruptcy law, that is 
        conditioned on--
                    ``(i) the insolvency or financial condition of the 
                debtor at any time before the closing of the case;
                    ``(ii) the commencement of a case under this title 
                concerning the debtor;
                    ``(iii) the appointment of or taking possession by 
                a trustee in a case under this title concerning the 
                debtor or by a custodian before the commencement of the 
                case; or
                    ``(iv) a credit rating agency rating, or absence or 
                withdrawal of a credit rating agency rating--
                            ``(I) of the debtor at any time after the 
                        commencement of the case;
                            ``(II) of an affiliate during the period 
                        from the commencement of the case until 48 
                        hours after such order is entered;
                            ``(III) of the bridge company while the 
                        trustee or the special trustee is a direct or 
                        indirect beneficial holder of more than 50 
                        percent of the equity securities of--
                                    ``(aa) the bridge company; or
                                    ``(bb) the affiliate, if all of the 
                                direct or indirect interests in the 
                                affiliate that are property of the 
                                estate are transferred under section 
                                1185; or
                            ``(IV) of an affiliate while the trustee or 
                        the special trustee is a direct or indirect 
                        beneficial holder of more than 50 percent of 
                        the equity securities of--
                                    ``(aa) the bridge company; or
                                    ``(bb) the affiliate, if all of the 
                                direct or indirect interests in the 
                                affiliate that are property of the 
                                estate are transferred under section 
                                1185.
    ``(2) A debt, contract, lease, or agreement described in this 
paragraph is--
            ``(A) any debt (other than capital structure debt), 
        executory contract, or unexpired lease of the debtor (other 
        than a qualified financial contract);
            ``(B) any agreement under which the debtor issued or is 
        obligated for debt (other than capital structure debt);
            ``(C) any debt, executory contract, or unexpired lease of 
        an affiliate (other than a qualified financial contract); or
            ``(D) any agreement under which an affiliate issued or is 
        obligated for debt.
    ``(3) The stay under this subsection terminates--
            ``(A) for the benefit of the debtor, upon the earliest of--
                    ``(i) 48 hours after the commencement of the case;
                    ``(ii) assumption of the debt, contract, lease, or 
                agreement by the bridge company under an order 
                authorizing a transfer under section 1185;
                    ``(iii) a final order of the court denying the 
                request for a transfer under section 1185; or
                    ``(iv) the time the case is dismissed; and
            ``(B) for the benefit of an affiliate, upon the earliest 
        of--
                    ``(i) the entry of an order authorizing a transfer 
                under section 1185 in which the direct or indirect 
                interests in the affiliate that are property of the 
                estate are not transferred under section 1185;
                    ``(ii) a final order by the court denying the 
                request for a transfer under section 1185;
                    ``(iii) 48 hours after the commencement of the case 
                if the court has not ordered a transfer under section 
                1185; or
                    ``(iv) the time the case is dismissed.
    ``(4) Subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) of section 362 apply to a 
stay under this subsection.
    ``(b) A debt, executory contract (other than a qualified financial 
contract), or unexpired lease of the debtor, or an agreement under 
which the debtor has issued or is obligated for any debt, may be 
assumed by a bridge company in a transfer under section 1185 
notwithstanding any provision in an agreement or in applicable 
nonbankruptcy law that--
            ``(1) prohibits, restricts, or conditions the assignment of 
        the debt, contract, lease, or agreement; or
            ``(2) accelerates, terminates, or modifies, or permits a 
        party other than the debtor to terminate or modify, the debt, 
        contract, lease, or agreement on account of--
                    ``(A) the assignment of the debt, contract, lease, 
                or agreement; or
                    ``(B) a change in control of any party to the debt, 
                contract, lease, or agreement.
    ``(c)(1) A debt, contract, lease, or agreement of the kind 
described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(2) may not be 
accelerated, terminated, or modified, and any right or obligation under 
such debt, contract, lease, or agreement may not be accelerated, 
terminated, or modified, as to the bridge company solely because of a 
provision in the debt, contract, lease, or agreement or in applicable 
nonbankruptcy law--
            ``(A) of the kind described in subsection (a)(1)(B) as 
        applied to the debtor;
            ``(B) that prohibits, restricts, or conditions the 
        assignment of the debt, contract, lease, or agreement; or
            ``(C) that accelerates, terminates, or modifies, or permits 
        a party other than the debtor to terminate or modify, the debt, 
        contract, lease or agreement on account of--
                    ``(i) the assignment of the debt, contract, lease, 
                or agreement; or
                    ``(ii) a change in control of any party to the 
                debt, contract, lease, or agreement.
    ``(2) If there is a default by the debtor under a provision other 
than the kind described in paragraph (1) in a debt, contract, lease or 
agreement of the kind described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of 
subsection (a)(2), the bridge company may assume such debt, contract, 
lease, or agreement only if the bridge company--
            ``(A) shall cure the default;
            ``(B) compensates, or provides adequate assurance in 
        connection with a transfer under section 1185 that the bridge 
        company will promptly compensate, a party other than the debtor 
        to the debt, contract, lease, or agreement, for any actual 
        pecuniary loss to the party resulting from the default; and
            ``(C) provides adequate assurance in connection with a 
        transfer under section 1185 of future performance under the 
        debt, contract, lease, or agreement, as determined by the court 
        under section 1185(c)(4).
``Sec. 1188. Treatment of qualified financial contracts and affiliate 
              contracts
    ``(a) Notwithstanding sections 362(b)(6), 362(b)(7), 362(b)(17), 
362(b)(27), 362(o), 555, 556, 559, 560, and 561, a petition filed under 
section 1183 operates as a stay, during the period specified in section 
1187(a)(3)(A), applicable to all entities, of the exercise of a 
contractual right--
            ``(1) to cause the modification, liquidation, termination, 
        or acceleration of a qualified financial contract of the debtor 
        or an affiliate;
            ``(2) to offset or net out any termination value, payment 
        amount, or other transfer obligation arising under or in 
        connection with a qualified financial contract of the debtor or 
        an affiliate; or
            ``(3) under any security agreement or arrangement or other 
        credit enhancement forming a part of or related to a qualified 
        financial contract of the debtor or an affiliate.
    ``(b)(1) During the period specified in section 1187(a)(3)(A), the 
trustee or the affiliate shall perform all payment and delivery 
obligations under such qualified financial contract of the debtor or 
the affiliate, as the case may be, that become due after the 
commencement of the case. The stay provided under subsection (a) 
terminates as to a qualified financial contract of the debtor or an 
affiliate immediately upon the failure of the trustee or the affiliate, 
as the case may be, to perform any such obligation during such period.
    ``(2) Any failure by a counterparty to any qualified financial 
contract of the debtor or any affiliate to perform any payment or 
delivery obligation under such qualified financial contract, including 
during the pendency of the stay provided under subsection (a), shall 
constitute a breach of such qualified financial contract by the 
counterparty.
    ``(c) Subject to the court's approval, a qualified financial 
contract between an entity and the debtor may be assigned to or assumed 
by the bridge company in a transfer under, and in accordance with, 
section 1185 if and only if--
            ``(1) all qualified financial contracts between the entity 
        and the debtor are assigned to and assumed by the bridge 
        company in the transfer under section 1185;
            ``(2) all claims of the entity against the debtor in 
        respect of any qualified financial contract between the entity 
        and the debtor (other than any claim that, under the terms of 
        the qualified financial contract, is subordinated to the claims 
        of general unsecured creditors) are assigned to and assumed by 
        the bridge company;
            ``(3) all claims of the debtor against the entity under any 
        qualified financial contract between the entity and the debtor 
        are assigned to and assumed by the bridge company; and
            ``(4) all property securing or any other credit enhancement 
        furnished by the debtor for any qualified financial contract 
        described in paragraph (1) or any claim described in paragraph 
        (2) or (3) under any qualified financial contract between the 
        entity and the debtor is assigned to and assumed by the bridge 
        company.
    ``(d) Notwithstanding any provision of a qualified financial 
contract or of applicable nonbankruptcy law, a qualified financial 
contract of the debtor that is assumed or assigned in a transfer under 
section 1185 may not be accelerated, terminated, or modified, after the 
entry of the order approving a transfer under section 1185, and any 
right or obligation under the qualified financial contract may not be 
accelerated, terminated, or modified, after the entry of the order 
approving a transfer under section 1185 solely because of a condition 
described in section 1187(c)(1), other than a condition of the kind 
specified in section 1187(b) that occurs after property of the estate 
no longer includes a direct beneficial interest or an indirect 
beneficial interest through the special trustee, in more than 50 
percent of the equity securities of the bridge company.
    ``(e) Notwithstanding any provision of any agreement or in 
applicable nonbankruptcy law, an agreement of an affiliate (including 
an executory contract, an unexpired lease, qualified financial 
contract, or an agreement under which the affiliate issued or is 
obligated for debt) and any right or obligation under such agreement 
may not be accelerated, terminated, or modified, solely because of a 
condition described in section 1187(c)(1), other than a condition of 
the kind specified in section 1187(b) that occurs after the bridge 
company is no longer a direct or indirect beneficial holder of more 
than 50 percent of the equity securities of the affiliate, at any time 
after the commencement of the case if--
            ``(1) all direct or indirect interests in the affiliate 
        that are property of the estate are transferred under section 
        1185 to the bridge company within the period specified in 
        subsection (a);
            ``(2) the bridge company assumes--
                    ``(A) any guarantee or other credit enhancement 
                issued by the debtor relating to the agreement of the 
                affiliate; and
                    ``(B) any obligations in respect of rights of 
                setoff, netting arrangement, or debt of the debtor that 
                directly arises out of or directly relates to the 
                guarantee or credit enhancement; and
            ``(3) any property of the estate that directly serves as 
        collateral for the guarantee or credit enhancement is 
        transferred to the bridge company.
``Sec. 1189. Licenses, permits, and registrations
    ``(a) Notwithstanding any otherwise applicable nonbankruptcy law, 
if a request is made under section 1185 for a transfer of property of 
the estate, any Federal, State, or local license, permit, or 
registration that the debtor or an affiliate had immediately before the 
commencement of the case and that is proposed to be transferred under 
section 1185 may not be accelerated, terminated, or modified at any 
time after the request solely on account of--
            ``(1) the insolvency or financial condition of the debtor 
        at any time before the closing of the case;
            ``(2) the commencement of a case under this title 
        concerning the debtor;
            ``(3) the appointment of or taking possession by a trustee 
        in a case under this title concerning the debtor or by a 
        custodian before the commencement of the case; or
            ``(4) a transfer under section 1185.
    ``(b) Notwithstanding any otherwise applicable nonbankruptcy law, 
any Federal, State, or local license, permit, or registration that the 
debtor had immediately before the commencement of the case that is 
included in a transfer under section 1185 shall be valid and all rights 
and obligations thereunder shall vest in the bridge company.
``Sec. 1190. Exemption from securities laws
    ``For purposes of section 1145, a security of the bridge company 
shall be deemed to be a security of a successor to the debtor under a 
plan if the court approves the disclosure statement for the plan as 
providing adequate information (as defined in section 1125(a)) about 
the bridge company and the security.
``Sec. 1191. Inapplicability of certain avoiding powers
    ``A transfer made or an obligation incurred by the debtor to an 
affiliate prior to or after the commencement of the case, including any 
obligation released by the debtor or the estate to or for the benefit 
of an affiliate, in contemplation of or in connection with a transfer 
under section 1185 is not avoidable under section 544, 547, 
548(a)(1)(B), or 549, or under any similar nonbankruptcy law.
``Sec. 1192. Consideration of financial stability
    ``The court may consider the effect that any decision in connection 
with this subchapter may have on financial stability in the United 
States.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 11 of 
title 11, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

 ``subchapter v--liquidation, reorganization, or recapitalization of a 
                     covered financial corporation

``1181. Inapplicability of other sections.
``1182. Definitions for this subchapter.
``1183. Commencement of a case concerning a covered financial 
                            corporation.
``1184. Regulators.
``1185. Special transfer of property of the estate.
``1186. Special trustee.
``1187. Temporary and supplemental automatic stay; assumed debt.
``1188. Treatment of qualified financial contracts and affiliate 
                            contracts.
``1189. Licenses, permits, and registrations.
``1190. Exemption from securities laws.
``1191. Inapplicability of certain avoiding powers.
``1192. Consideration of financial stability.''.

SEC. 1104. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 28, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Amendment to Chapter 13.--Chapter 13 of title 28, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 298. Judge for a case under subchapter V of chapter 11 of title 
              11
    ``(a)(1) Notwithstanding section 295, the Chief Justice of the 
United States shall designate not fewer than 10 bankruptcy judges to be 
available to hear a case under subchapter V of chapter 11 of title 11. 
Bankruptcy judges may request to be considered by the Chief Justice of 
the United States for such designation.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding section 155, a case under subchapter V of 
chapter 11 of title 11 shall be heard under section 157 by a bankruptcy 
judge designated under paragraph (1), who shall be randomly assigned to 
hear such case by the chief judge of the court of appeals for the 
circuit embracing the district in which the case is pending. To the 
greatest extent practicable, the approvals required under section 155 
should be obtained.
    ``(3) If the bankruptcy judge assigned to hear a case under 
paragraph (2) is not assigned to the district in which the case is 
pending, the bankruptcy judge shall be temporarily assigned to the 
district.
    ``(b) A case under subchapter V of chapter 11 of title 11, and all 
proceedings in the case, shall take place in the district in which the 
case is pending.
    ``(c) In this section, the term `covered financial corporation' has 
the meaning given that term in section 101(9A) of title 11.''.
    (b) Amendment to Section 1334 of Title 28.--Section 1334 of title 
28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) This section does not grant jurisdiction to the district 
court after a transfer pursuant to an order under section 1185 of title 
11 of any proceeding related to a special trustee appointed, or to a 
bridge company formed, in connection with a case under subchapter V of 
chapter 11 of title 11.''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 13 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following:

``298. Judge for a case under subchapter V of chapter 11 of title 
                            11.''.

                               TITLE XII

                     ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       Spending Reduction Account

    Sec. 1201.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is $0.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Financial Services and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2017''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 484

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5485

                          [Report No. 114-624]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for financial services and general government for 
   the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 15, 2016

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
