[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4453 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4453

  To amend the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 to review the 
 number of contracts for new disadvantaged small business concerns at 
certain airports with Disadvantaged Business Enterprises, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 3, 2016

  Ms. Moore introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
             Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 to review the 
 number of contracts for new disadvantaged small business concerns at 
certain airports with Disadvantaged Business Enterprises, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REVIEW OF FAA PROGRAMS OF NEW DISADVANTAGED SMALL BUSINESS 
              CONCERNS.

    Section 140 of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (49 
U.S.C. 47113 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``each of fiscal 
                years 2013 through 2015'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
                2016 and periodically thereafter''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(A) by striking ``a list'' and 
                inserting ``from the large and medium hub airports in 
                the United States that have a disadvantaged business 
                enterprise program, a list''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Assessment of Efforts.--Each fiscal year the Inspector 
General shall assess the efforts of the Federal Aviation Administration 
in the last 6 months of the previous fiscal year to implement 
recommendations suggested in previous reports issued pursuant to this 
section.''.

SEC. 2. ANNUAL TRACKING OF CERTAIN NEW FIRMS AT AIRPORTS WITH A 
              DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE PROGRAM.

    (a) Number of DBEs.--Beginning in fiscal year 2016, and each year 
thereafter, the Administrator shall require airports to report on the 
number of new DBEs that were awarded a contract or concession during 
such fiscal year.
    (b) Training.--The Administrator shall provide training on an 
ongoing basis to airports that comply with subsection (a).
    (c) Reporting.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act and every year thereafter, the Administrator shall update 
DBE-connect or any other successor online reporting system to include 
information on the number of new DBE and Airport Concession 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBEs) that are awarded a contract 
or concession for the first time at large and medium hub airports with 
a DBE program.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.
            (2) DBE.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``DBE'' means an 
                enterprise described in subsection (a) that is 
                certified in accordance with part 26 of title 49, Code 
                of Federal Regulations.
                    (B) New dbe.--The term, ``new DBE'' means a DBE 
                that participated in a contract or concession agreement 
                for the first time in the fiscal year under review.

SEC. 3. AUDITS.

    The Inspector General of the Department of Transportation shall 
conduct regular audits of the accuracy of the data on DBEs and 
participation contained in the online reporting database developed by 
DBE-connect or any similar or successor online reporting database 
developed by the Federal Aviation Administration.
                                 <all>
