[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3818 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3818

 To repeal the Cuban Adjustment Act, Public Law 89-732, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 23, 2015

     Mr. Gosar (for himself, Mr. Brat, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. 
DesJarlais, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Jones, Mr. King of 
 Iowa, and Mr. Poe of Texas) introduced the following bill; which was 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To repeal the Cuban Adjustment Act, Public Law 89-732, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ending Special National Origin-Based 
Immigration Programs for Cubans Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) On July 1, 2015, President Obama announced that Cuba 
        and the United States would reopen their embassies and restore 
        diplomatic ties.
            (2) Diplomatic relations between the two countries were 
        formally reestablished July 20, 2015, when the United States 
        and Cuba reopened their respective embassies.
            (3) The International Business Times reported on September 
        10, 2015, that ``Texas is on pace this year to set a new record 
        for the number of Cubans trying to enter the United States 
        through the Lone Star State, with about 60 percent more 
        migrants from the island nation making the trip in 2015 
        compared to one year before.''.
            (4) The Obama Administration has reestablished relations 
        with Cuba, and that, therefore, the special treatment Cuban 
        nationals receive under the Cuban Adjustment Act, the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act, the Cuban Family Reunification 
        Program and the Wet Foot/Dry Foot policy are no longer 
        applicable and fail the ``urgent humanitarian reasons'' and 
        ``significant public benefit'' tests.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that Cuban 
nationals should be treated under the same immigration rules as 
nationals of other countries with which the United States has 
diplomatic relations and should not receive preferential treatment.

SEC. 3. REPEAL OF THE CUBAN ADJUSTMENT ACT.

    (a) Repeals of Relevant Statutes.--
            (1) Repeal of limitation on repeal of cuban adjustment 
        act.--Section 606 of title VI of division C of Public Law 104-
        208 is repealed.
            (2) Cuban adjustment act.--Public Law 89-732 is repealed.
    (b) Effective Date.--The repeal made by subsection (a) shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply only to 
any alien admitted or paroled into the United States on or after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 4. CERTAIN ACTIVITIES RESTRICTED.

    No funds, resources, or fees made available to the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, or to any other official of 
a Federal agency, by this Act or any other Act for any fiscal year, 
including any deposits into the ``Immigration Examinations Fee 
Account'' established under section 286(m) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)), may be used to implement, 
administer, enforce, or carry out (including through the issuance of 
any regulations) any of the policy changes set forth in the memorandum 
from the Director of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
entitled ``Cuban Family Reunification Parole Program'' dated November 
21, 2007 (or any substantially similar policy changes, whether set 
forth in memorandum, Executive order, regulation, directive, or by 
other action).
                                 <all>
