[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4093 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4093

  To revise certain administrative and management authorities of the 
             Librarian of Congress, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 19, 2015

  Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania introduced the following bill; which was 
 referred to the Committee on House Administration, and in addition to 
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To revise certain administrative and management authorities of the 
             Librarian of Congress, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Library of Congress Administrative 
Reform Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZING NATIONAL LIBRARY SERVICE FOR THE BLIND AND 
              PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED TO PROVIDE PLAYBACK EQUIPMENT IN 
              ALL FORMATS.

    The first sentence of the Act entitled ``An Act to provide books 
for the adult blind'', approved March 3, 1931 (2 U.S.C. 135a), is 
amended by striking ``and for purchase, maintenance, and replacement of 
reproducers for such sound-reproduction recordings'' and inserting 
``and for purchase, maintenance, and replacement of reproducers for any 
such forms''.

SEC. 3. LIBRARY OF CONGRESS NATIONAL COLLECTION STEWARDSHIP FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established in the Treasury of 
the United States, as an account for the Librarian of Congress, the 
``Library of Congress National Collection Stewardship Fund'' (hereafter 
in this section referred to as the ``Fund'').
    (b) Contents of Fund.--The Fund shall consist of the following 
amounts:
            (1) Such amounts as may be transferred by the Librarian 
        from amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for the Library 
        of Congress under the heading ``Salaries and Expenses''.
            (2) Such amounts as may be transferred by the Architect of 
        the Capitol from amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for 
        the Architect of the Capitol under the heading ``Library of 
        Congress Buildings and Grounds''.
            (3) Such amounts as may be appropriated to the Fund under 
        law.
    (c) Use of Amounts.--Amounts in the Fund may be used by the 
Librarian as follows:
            (1) The Librarian may use amounts directly for the purpose 
        of preparing collection materials of the Library of Congress 
        for long-term storage.
            (2) The Librarian may transfer amounts to the Architect of 
        the Capitol for the purpose of designing, constructing, 
        altering, upgrading, and equipping collections preservation and 
        storage facilities for the Library of Congress, or for the 
        purpose of acquiring real property by lease for the 
        preservation and storage of Library of Congress collections in 
        accordance with section 1102 of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriations Act, 2009 (2 U.S.C. 1823a).
    (d) Continuing Availability of Funds.--Any amounts in the Fund 
shall remain available until expended.
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than 180 days after the end of each 
fiscal year, the Librarian and the Architect of the Capitol shall 
submit a joint report on the Fund to the Joint Committee on the Library 
and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate.
    (f) Initial 5-Year Plan.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Librarian shall submit to the Joint 
Committee on the Library and the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate a report providing a plan for 
expenditures from the Fund for the first 5 fiscal years of the Fund's 
operation.

SEC. 4. EXPANDING USES OF CERTAIN REVOLVING FUNDS.

    (a) National Audiovisual Conservation Center Fund.--Section 101 of 
the Library of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000 (2 
U.S.C. 182a) is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``duplication''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``duplication and delivery services 
                provided by the Librarian'' and inserting ``the 
                following programs and activities of the Librarian'';
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                a colon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(1) Services related to the duplication and preservation 
        of audiovisual materials and associated collections.
            ``(2) Storage, inspection, and delivery of audiovisual 
        materials and associated collections.''.
    (b) Revolving Fund for Gift Shop and Related Services.--Section 102 
of such Act (2 U.S.C. 182b) is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``gift shop'' and all that 
        follows and inserting ``sales and other services''; and
            (2) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraphs:
            ``(5) Traveling exhibitions and exhibition materials.
            ``(6) Training.''.
    (c) Inclusion of Tribal Governments in FEDLINK Program.--Section 
103(f)(1) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 182c(f)(1)) is amended by inserting 
after ``Federal Government,'' the following: ``tribal governments (as 
defined in section 502(c)(3)(B) of title 40, United States Code),''.

SEC. 5. AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT GIFTS AND BEQUESTS.

    (a) Expanding Types of Gifts That May Be Accepted.--The first 
undesignated paragraph of section 4 of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
create a Library of Congress Trust Fund Board, and for other 
purposes'', approved March 3, 1925 (2 U.S.C. 160), is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``in the name of the 
        United States'' and all that follows and inserting the 
        following: ``in the name of the United States and in the 
        interest of the Library, its collections, or its service gifts 
        or bequests of personal property, nonpersonal services, 
        voluntary and uncompensated personal services, or money for 
        immediate disbursement.'';
            (2) in the second sentence, by inserting ``of money'' after 
        ``bequests''; and
            (3) in the third sentence, by striking ``enter them'' and 
        inserting ``enter the gift, bequest, or proceeds''.
    (b) Treatment of Gifts of Securities.--The first undesignated 
paragraph of section 4 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 160) is amended by 
inserting after the first sentence the following new sentence: ``In the 
case of a gift of securities, the Librarian shall sell the gift and 
provide the donor with a receipt from the proceeds of the sale.''.

SEC. 6. CONTINUATION OF SERVICE OF RETURNING MEMBERS OF JOINT COMMITTEE 
              ON THE LIBRARY AT BEGINNING OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Continuation of Service.--
            (1) In general.--During the period beginning on the first 
        day of a Congress and ending on the date described in paragraph 
        (2), any Member of Congress who served as a member of the Joint 
        Committee on the Library during the previous Congress shall 
        continue to serve as a member of the Joint Committee.
            (2) Date described.--The date described in this paragraph 
        is, with respect to a Congress--
                    (A) in the case of a Member of Congress who is a 
                Member of the House of Representatives, the date on 
                which Members of the House are appointed to serve on 
                the Joint Committee for the Congress; and
                    (B) in the case of a Member of Congress who is a 
                Senator, the date on which Senators are appointed to 
                serve on the Joint Committee for the Congress.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The final undesignated paragraph under 
the heading ``Senate.'' in section 2 of the Act of March 3, 1883 
(chapter 141; 22 Stat. 592) (2 U.S.C. 133), is hereby repealed.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section and the amendment made by this 
section shall apply with respect to the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress 
and each succeeding Congress.

SEC. 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall apply with 
respect to fiscal year 2016 and each succeeding fiscal year.
                                 <all>
