[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1821 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1821

To permit service members to carry firearms on military installations, 
           including reserve centers and recruitment offices.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 21, 2015

  Mr. Johnson introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
              referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To permit service members to carry firearms on military installations, 
           including reserve centers and recruitment offices.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Armed Forces Self-Defense Act''.

SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    (a) In General.--It is the policy of the United States that 
Department of Defense personnel shall be appropriately armed and have 
the inherent right to self-defense.
    (b) Department of Defense Policy.--It shall be the policy of the 
Department of Defense to permit trained military personnel to carry, 
open or concealed, certain personal firearms while on military 
installations in the United States.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect not later than 
60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3. REPEAL OF PORTIONS OF REGULATIONS AND DIRECTIVES PROHIBITING 
              SERVICE MEMBERS TRAINED IN THE USE OF FIREARMS FROM 
              CARRYING A PERSONAL FIREARM ON A MILITARY INSTALLATION.

    (a) Termination of Force and Effect of Current Regulations and 
Directives.--Effective not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the following regulations, directives, and rules 
shall have no further force or effect:
            (1) Section 4.b. of the Department of Defense Directive 
        Number 5210.56, issued on November 1, 2001, and modified on 
        January 24, 2002, and on April 1, 2011.
            (2) Army Regulation 190-14, issued on March 12, 1993.
    (b) Other Firearm Bans.--Effective not later than 60 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, any provision in any other rule, 
regulation, or Executive order that prohibits military personnel 
trained in firearms from carrying personal firearms on United States 
military installations shall have no further force or effect with 
regard to such military personnel, and such military personnel shall 
not be prohibited from carrying personal firearms on United States 
military installations.

SEC. 4. PROCESS BY WHICH SERVICE MEMBERS MAY CARRY A PERSONAL FIREARM 
              ON A MILITARY INSTALLATION.

    (a) Process Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, taking into 
consideration the views of senior leadership of military installations 
in the United States, shall establish a process by which the commander 
of a military installation in the United States may authorize a member 
of the Armed Forces who is assigned to duty at the installation to 
carry a personal firearm on the installation if the commander 
determines it to be necessary as a personal- or force-protection 
measure.
    (b) Relation to State and Local Law.--In establishing the process 
under subsection (a) for a military installation, the commander of the 
installation shall consult with elected officials of the State and 
local jurisdictions in which the installation is located and take into 
consideration the law of the State and such jurisdictions regarding 
carrying a personal firearm.
    (c) Member Qualifications.--To be eligible to be authorized to 
carry a personal firearm on a military installation pursuant to the 
process established under subsection (a), a member of the Armed 
Forces--
            (1) must complete any training and certification required 
        by any State in which the installation is located that would 
        permit the member to carry in that State;
            (2) must not be subject to disciplinary action under the 
        Uniform Code of Military Justice for any offense that could 
        result in incarceration or separation from the Armed Forces; 
        and
            (3) must not be prohibited from possessing a firearm 
        because of conviction of a crime of domestic violence.
    (d) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' includes 
the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any 
territory or possession of the United States.

SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Military installation.--The term ``military 
        installation'' means a base, camp, post, station, yard, center, 
        or other activity, including a reserve center and a recruitment 
        office, under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of a military 
        department.
            (2) Firearm.--The term ``firearm'' means a handgun, 
        specifically, a gun designed for use in one hand such as a 
        pistol or a revolver.
                                 <all>
