[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 453 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 453

 To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to States to 
streamline State requirements and procedures for veterans with military 
    emergency medical training to become civilian emergency medical 
                              technicians.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 11, 2015

  Mr. Cassidy introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
  referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to States to 
streamline State requirements and procedures for veterans with military 
    emergency medical training to become civilian emergency medical 
                              technicians.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veteran Emergency Medical Technician 
Support Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. ASSISTING VETERANS WITH MILITARY EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRAINING TO 
              MEET REQUIREMENTS FOR BECOMING CIVILIAN EMERGENCY MEDICAL 
              TECHNICIANS.

    Part B of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 243 
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 314 the following:

``SEC. 315. ASSISTING VETERANS WITH MILITARY EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRAINING 
              TO MEET REQUIREMENTS FOR BECOMING CIVILIAN EMERGENCY 
              MEDICAL TECHNICIANS.

    ``(a) Program.--The Secretary shall establish a program consisting 
of awarding demonstration grants to States to streamline State 
requirements and procedures in order to assist veterans who completed 
military emergency medical technician training while serving in the 
Armed Forces of the United States to meet certification, licensure, and 
other requirements applicable to becoming an emergency medical 
technician in the State.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--Amounts received as a demonstration grant 
under this section shall be used to prepare and implement a plan to 
streamline State requirements and procedures as described in subsection 
(a), including by--
            ``(1) determining the extent to which the requirements for 
        the education, training, and skill level of emergency medical 
        technicians in the State are equivalent to requirements for the 
        education, training, and skill level of military emergency 
        medical technicians; and
            ``(2) identifying methods, such as waivers, for military 
        emergency medical technicians to forego or meet any such 
        equivalent State requirements.
    ``(c) Eligibility.--To be eligible for a grant under this section, 
a State shall demonstrate that the State has a shortage of emergency 
medical technicians.
    ``(d) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to the Congress an annual 
report on the program under this section.
    ``(e) Funding.--No additional funds are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, and this section shall be 
carried out using amounts otherwise available for such purpose.''.
                                 <all>
