[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6449 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6449

To amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to provide political 
 advertising vouchers and payments to defray the costs of postage for 
       candidates in general elections to the Senate or House of 
Representatives who agree to restrictions on the types of contributions 
  such candidates raise and the types of expenditures such candidates 
                     make, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 7, 2016

  Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of Pennsylvania introduced the following bill; 
  which was referred to the Committee on House Administration, and in 
 addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to provide political 
 advertising vouchers and payments to defray the costs of postage for 
       candidates in general elections to the Senate or House of 
Representatives who agree to restrictions on the types of contributions 
  such candidates raise and the types of expenditures such candidates 
                     make, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Clean Money Act of 
2016''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
             TITLE I--BENEFITS FOR PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES

Sec. 101. Political advertising vouchers and payments to defray costs 
                            of postage for participating candidates.
            ``TITLE V--BENEFITS FOR PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES

 ``Subtitle A--Entitlement to Vouchers and Payments To Defray Costs of 
                                Postage

        ``Sec. 501. Provision of political advertising vouchers.
        ``Sec. 502. Procedures for redemption of political advertising 
                            vouchers.
        ``Sec. 503. Funds to defray costs of postage.
        ``Sec. 504. Qualified small dollar contributions described.
              ``Subtitle B--Eligibility and Certification

        ``Sec. 511. Eligibility.
        ``Sec. 512. Qualifying requirements.
        ``Sec. 513. Certification.
 ``Subtitle C--Requirements for Candidates Certified as Participating 
                               Candidates

        ``Sec. 521. Contribution and expenditure requirements.
        ``Sec. 522. Administration of campaign.
        ``Sec. 523. Returning unused vouchers and funds after election.
                ``Subtitle D--Administrative Provisions

        ``Sec. 531. Clean Money Fund.
        ``Sec. 532. Administration by Commission.
        ``Sec. 533. Violations and penalties.
        ``Sec. 534. Appeals process.
        ``Sec. 535. Indexing of amounts.
        ``Sec. 536. Election cycle defined.
Sec. 102. Contributions and expenditures by multicandidate and 
                            political party political committees on 
                            behalf of participating candidates.
Sec. 103. Prohibiting use of contributions by participating candidates 
                            for purposes other than campaign for 
                            election.
          TITLE II--EXPANDING CANDIDATE ACCESS TO ADVERTISING

Sec. 201. Broadcasts by candidates.
                  TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 301. Severability.

             TITLE I--BENEFITS FOR PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES

SEC. 101. POLITICAL ADVERTISING VOUCHERS AND PAYMENTS TO DEFRAY COSTS 
              OF POSTAGE FOR PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES.

    The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new title:

            ``TITLE V--BENEFITS FOR PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES

 ``Subtitle A--Entitlement to Vouchers and Payments To Defray Costs of 
                                Postage

``SEC. 501. PROVISION OF POLITICAL ADVERTISING VOUCHERS.

    ``(a) In General.--If a candidate in a general election to the 
office of Senator or Representative in, or Delegate or Resident 
Commissioner to, the Congress is certified as a participating candidate 
under this title with respect to the election for such office, the 
candidate shall be entitled to political advertising vouchers as 
provided under this section.
    ``(b) Value of Voucher.--The value of a political advertising 
voucher provided to a candidate under this section shall be equal to 
the product of--
            ``(1) the population of the State (in the case of a 
        candidate for the office of Senator) or the congressional 
        district involved (in the case of a candidate for the office of 
        Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the 
        Congress), based on the most recent information available from 
        the Bureau of the Census; and
            ``(2) $1.
    ``(c) Timing.--The Commission shall provide political advertising 
vouchers under this section to a candidate not later than 7 days after 
the candidate is certified as a participating candidate under this 
title.

``SEC. 502. PROCEDURES FOR REDEMPTION OF POLITICAL ADVERTISING 
              VOUCHERS.

    ``(a) Use.--
            ``(1) Exclusive use.--Vouchers provided by the Commission 
        to participating candidates under section 501 may be used only 
        for the purchase of broadcast time for political advertisements 
        relating to an election for the office of Senator or Member of 
        the House of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident 
        Commissioner to the Congress) by the participating candidate to 
        which the vouchers were provided, except that--
                    ``(A) a candidate may exchange vouchers with a 
                political party under paragraph (2); and
                    ``(B) a political party may use vouchers only to 
                purchase broadcast time for political advertisements 
                for generic party advertising (as defined by the 
                Commission in regulations), to support candidates for 
                State or local office in a general election, or to 
                support participating candidates of the party in a 
                general election for Federal office, but only if it 
                discloses the value of the voucher used as an 
                expenditure under section 315(d).
            ``(2) Exchange with political party committee.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A participating candidate who 
                receives a voucher under this section may transfer the 
                right to use all or a portion of the value of the 
                voucher to a committee of the political party of which 
                the individual is a candidate in exchange for money in 
                an amount equal to the cash value of the voucher or 
                portion exchanged.
                    ``(B) Continuation of candidate obligations.--The 
                transfer of a voucher, in whole or in part, to a 
                political party committee under this paragraph does not 
                release the candidate from any obligation with respect 
                to the provision of the voucher under this title.
                    ``(C) Party committee obligations.--Any political 
                party committee to which a voucher or portion thereof 
                is transferred under subparagraph (A)--
                            ``(i) shall account fully, in accordance 
                        with such requirements as the Commission may 
                        establish, for the receipt of the voucher; and
                            ``(ii) may not use the transferred voucher 
                        or portion thereof for any purpose other than a 
                        purpose described in paragraph (1)(B).
                    ``(D) Voucher as a contribution.--If a candidate 
                transfers a voucher or any portion thereof to a 
                political party committee under subparagraph (A)--
                            ``(i) the value of the voucher or portion 
                        thereof transferred shall be treated as a 
                        contribution from the candidate to the 
                        committee, and from the committee to the 
                        candidate, for purposes of sections 302 and 
                        304;
                            ``(ii) the committee may, in exchange, 
                        provide to the candidate only funds subject to 
                        the prohibitions, limitations, and reporting 
                        requirements of title III of this Act; and
                            ``(iii) the amount, if identified as a 
                        `voucher exchange', shall not be considered a 
                        contribution for the purposes of sections 315 
                        and 513.
    ``(b) Value; Acceptance; Redemption.--
            ``(1) Voucher.--Each voucher disbursed by the Commission 
        under this section shall have a value in dollars, redeemable 
        upon presentation to the Commission, together with such 
        documentation and other information as the Commission may 
        require, for the purchase of broadcast time for political 
        advertisements in accordance with this section.
            ``(2) Acceptance.--A broadcasting station shall accept 
        vouchers as payment for the purchase of broadcast time for 
        political advertisements in accordance with this section.
            ``(3) Redemption.--The Commission shall redeem vouchers 
        accepted by broadcasting stations under paragraph (2) upon 
        presentation, subject to such documentation, verification, 
        accounting, and application requirements as the Commission may 
        impose to ensure the accuracy and integrity of the voucher 
        redemption system.
            ``(4) Expiration.--
                    ``(A) Candidates.--A voucher may only be used to 
                pay for broadcast time for political advertisements to 
                be broadcast before midnight on the day before the date 
                of the Federal election in connection with which it was 
                issued and shall be null and void for any other use or 
                purpose.
                    ``(B) Exception for political party committees.--A 
                voucher held by a political party committee may be used 
                to pay for broadcast time for political advertisements 
                to be broadcast before midnight on December 31st of the 
                odd-numbered year following the year in which the 
                voucher was issued by the Commission.
            ``(5) Voucher as expenditure.--The use of a voucher to 
        purchase broadcast time constitutes an expenditure as defined 
        in section 301(9)(A).
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Broadcasting station.--The term `broadcasting 
        station' has the meaning given that term by section 315(f)(1) 
        of the Communications Act of 1934.
            ``(2) Political party.--The term `political party' means a 
        major party or a minor party as defined in section 9002(3) or 
        (4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 9002(3) or 
        (4)).

``SEC. 503. FUNDS TO DEFRAY COSTS OF POSTAGE.

    ``(a) Availability of Payment.--If a candidate in a general 
election to the office of Senator or Representative in, or Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress is certified as a participating 
candidate under this title with respect to the election for such 
office, the candidate shall be entitled to a payment under this title 
to defray the costs of postage incurred in connection with the election 
by authorized committees of the candidate.
    ``(b) Amount.--The amount of the payment made to a candidate under 
this section to defray the costs of postage shall be equal to the 
product of--
            ``(1) the population of the State (in the case of a 
        candidate for the office of Senator) or the congressional 
        district involved (in the case of a candidate for the office of 
        Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the 
        Congress), based on the most recent information available from 
        the Bureau of the Census; and
            ``(2) 50 cents.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--Upon receiving a payment under this section, a 
candidate shall deposit the payment in a separate, segregated account 
of any authorized committees of the candidate, and shall ensure that 
amounts in such account are used solely for the payment of postage 
incurred by such committees in connection with the election.
    ``(d) Timing.--The Commission shall make a payment under this 
section to a candidate not later than 7 days after the candidate is 
certified as a participating candidate under this title.

``SEC. 504. QUALIFIED SMALL DOLLAR CONTRIBUTIONS DESCRIBED.

    ``(a) In General.--In this title, the term `qualified small dollar 
contribution' means, with respect to a candidate and the authorized 
committees of a candidate, a contribution that meets the following 
requirements:
            ``(1) The contribution is in an amount that is--
                    ``(A) not less than $1; and
                    ``(B) not more than $200.
            ``(2) The contribution is made by an individual, either 
        directly or through an intermediary or conduit (as described in 
        section 315(a)(8)), who is not otherwise prohibited from making 
        a contribution under this Act.
            ``(3) The individual who makes the contribution does not 
        make contributions to the candidate or the authorized 
        committees of the candidate with respect to the election 
        involved in an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount 
        described in paragraph (1)(B), or any contribution to the 
        candidate or the authorized committees of the candidate with 
        respect to the election involved that otherwise is not a 
        qualified small dollar contribution.
    ``(b) Restriction on Subsequent Contributions.--
            ``(1) Prohibiting donor from making subsequent non-
        qualified contributions during election cycle.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An individual who makes a 
                qualified small dollar contribution to a candidate or 
                the authorized committees of a candidate with respect 
                to an election may not make any subsequent contribution 
                to such candidate or the authorized committees of such 
                candidate with respect to the election cycle which is 
                not a qualified small dollar contribution.
                    ``(B) Exception for contributions to candidates who 
                voluntarily withdraw from participation during 
                qualifying period.--Subparagraph (A) does not apply 
                with respect to a contribution made to a candidate who, 
                during the Clean Money qualifying period described in 
                section 511(c), submits a statement to the Commission 
                under section 513(c) to voluntarily withdraw from 
                participating in the program under this title.
            ``(2) Treatment of subsequent non-qualified 
        contributions.--If, notwithstanding the prohibition described 
        in paragraph (1), an individual who makes a qualified small 
        dollar contribution to a candidate or the authorized committees 
        of a candidate with respect to an election makes a subsequent 
        contribution to such candidate or the authorized committees of 
        such candidate with respect to the election which is prohibited 
        under paragraph (1) because it is not a qualified small dollar 
        contribution, the candidate may take one of the following 
        actions:
                    ``(A) Not later than 2 weeks after receiving the 
                contribution, the candidate may return the subsequent 
                contribution to the individual.
                    ``(B) The candidate may retain the subsequent 
                contribution, so long as not later than 2 weeks after 
                receiving the subsequent contribution, the candidate 
                remits to the Commission for deposit in the Clean Money 
                Fund under section 531 an amount equal to any payments 
                received by the candidate under this title which are 
                attributable to the qualified small dollar contribution 
                made by the individual involved.
            ``(3) No effect on ability to make multiple 
        contributions.--Nothing in this section may be construed to 
        prohibit an individual from making multiple qualified small 
        dollar contributions to any candidate or any number of 
        candidates, so long as each contribution meets each of the 
        requirements of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a).
    ``(c) Notification Requirements for Candidates.--
            ``(1) Notification.--Each authorized committee of a 
        candidate who seeks to be a participating candidate under this 
        title shall provide the following information in any materials 
        for the solicitation of contributions, including any Internet 
        site through which individuals may make contributions to the 
        committee:
                    ``(A) A statement that if the candidate is 
                certified as a participating candidate under this 
                title, the candidate will receive political advertising 
                vouchers under this title in an amount which is based 
                on the total amount of qualified small dollar 
                contributions received.
                    ``(B) A statement that a contribution which meets 
                the requirements set forth in subsection (a) shall be 
                treated as a qualified small dollar contribution under 
                this title unless the contributor notifies the 
                committee not later than 48 hours after making the 
                contribution that the contribution is not to be so 
                treated.
                    ``(C) A statement that if a contribution is treated 
                as qualified small dollar contribution under this 
                title, the individual who makes the contribution may 
                not make any contribution to the candidate or the 
                authorized committees of the candidate during the 
                election cycle which is not a qualified small dollar 
                contribution.
            ``(2) Alternative methods of meeting requirements.--An 
        authorized committee may meet the requirements of paragraph 
        (1)--
                    ``(A) by including the information described in 
                paragraph (1) in the receipt provided under section 
                512(b)(3) to a person making a qualified small dollar 
                contribution; or
                    ``(B) by modifying the information it provides to 
                persons making contributions which is otherwise 
                required under title III (including information it 
                provides through the Internet).

              ``Subtitle B--Eligibility and Certification

``SEC. 511. ELIGIBILITY.

    ``(a) In General.--A candidate for the office of Senator or 
Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the 
Congress is eligible to be certified as a participating candidate under 
this title with respect to an election if the candidate meets the 
following requirements:
            ``(1) The candidate files with the Commission a statement 
        of intent to seek certification as a participating candidate.
            ``(2) The candidate meets the qualifying requirements of 
        section 512.
            ``(3) The candidate files with the Commission a statement 
        certifying that the authorized committees of the candidate meet 
        the requirements of section 504(c).
            ``(4) Not later than the last day of the Clean Money 
        qualifying period, the candidate files with the Commission an 
        affidavit signed by the candidate and the treasurer of the 
        candidate's principal campaign committee declaring that the 
        candidate--
                    ``(A) has complied and, if certified, will comply 
                with the contribution and expenditure requirements of 
                section 521;
                    ``(B) if certified, will run only as a 
                participating candidate for all elections for the 
                office that such candidate is seeking during that 
                election cycle; and
                    ``(C) has either qualified or will take steps to 
                qualify under State law to be on the ballot.
            ``(5) The candidate is the nominee of a political party 
        whose candidate received not less than 15 percent of the total 
        number of popular votes received by all candidates in the most 
        recent general election for the office the candidate seeks.
    ``(b) General Election.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), a 
candidate shall not be eligible to be certified as a participating 
candidate under this title for a general election or a general runoff 
election unless the candidate's party nominated the candidate to be 
placed on the ballot for the general election or the candidate is 
otherwise qualified to be on the ballot under State law.
    ``(c) Clean Money Qualifying Period Defined.--The term `Clean Money 
qualifying period' means, with respect to any candidate for an office, 
the 180-day period (during the election cycle for such office) which 
begins on the date on which the candidate files a statement of intent 
under subsection (a)(1), except that such period may not continue after 
the date that is 30 days before the date of the general election for 
the office.

``SEC. 512. QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) Receipt of Qualified Small Dollar Contributions From In-State 
Residents.--A candidate for the office of Senator or Representative in, 
or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress meets the 
requirement of this section if, during the Clean Money qualifying 
period described in section 511(c), each of the following occurs:
            ``(1) Not fewer than 1,000 individuals who are residents of 
        the State in which the candidate seeks election make a 
        qualified small dollar contribution to the candidate.
            ``(2) The candidate obtains a total dollar amount of 
        qualified small dollar contributions from individuals who are 
        residents of the State in which the candidate seeks election 
        which is equal to or greater than $50,000.
    ``(b) Requirements Relating to Receipt of Qualified Small Dollar 
Contribution.--Each qualified small dollar contribution--
            ``(1) may be made by means of a personal check, money 
        order, debit card, credit card, electronic payment account, or 
        any other method deemed appropriate by the Commission;
            ``(2) shall be accompanied by a signed statement (or, in 
        the case of a contribution made online or through other 
        electronic means, an electronic equivalent) containing--
                    ``(A) the contributor's name and the contributor's 
                address in the State in which the primary residence of 
                the contributor is located; and
                    ``(B) an oath declaring that the contributor--
                            ``(i) understands that the purpose of the 
                        contribution is to show support for the 
                        candidate so that the candidate may qualify for 
                        political advertising vouchers under this 
                        title;
                            ``(ii) is making the contribution in his or 
                        her own name and from his or her own funds;
                            ``(iii) has made the contribution 
                        willingly; and
                            ``(iv) has not received any thing of value 
                        in return for the contribution; and
            ``(3) shall be acknowledged by a receipt that is sent to 
        the contributor with a copy (in paper or electronic form) kept 
        by the candidate for the Commission and a copy (in paper or 
        electronic form) kept by the candidate for the election 
        authorities in the State with respect to which the candidate is 
        seeking election.
    ``(c) Verification of Qualified Small Dollar Contributions.--The 
Commission shall establish procedures for the auditing and verification 
of qualified small dollar contributions, including procedures for 
random audits, to ensure that such contributions meet the requirements 
of this section.

``SEC. 513. CERTIFICATION.

    ``(a) Deadline and Notification.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 5 days after a candidate 
        files an affidavit under section 511(a)(3), the Commission 
        shall--
                    ``(A) determine whether or not the candidate meets 
                the requirements for certification as a participating 
                candidate;
                    ``(B) if the Commission determines that the 
                candidate meets such requirements, certify the 
                candidate as a participating candidate; and
                    ``(C) notify the candidate of the Commission's 
                determination.
            ``(2) Deemed certification for subsequent runoff 
        elections.--If the Commission certifies a candidate as a 
        participating candidate with respect to a general election, the 
        Commissioner shall be deemed to have certified the candidate as 
        a participating candidate with respect to any subsequent runoff 
        election held in that election cycle.
    ``(b) Revocation of Certification.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Commission may revoke a 
        certification under subsection (a) if--
                    ``(A) a candidate fails to qualify to appear on the 
                ballot at any time after the date of certification 
                (other than a candidate certified as a participating 
                candidate with respect to a general election who fails 
                to qualify to appear on the ballot for a subsequent 
                runoff election in that election cycle);
                    ``(B) a candidate ceases to be a candidate for the 
                office involved, as determined on the basis of an 
                official announcement by an authorized committee of the 
                candidate or on the basis of a reasonable determination 
                by the Commission; or
                    ``(C) a candidate otherwise fails to comply with 
                the requirements of this title, including any 
                regulatory requirements prescribed by the Commission.
            ``(2) Existence of repeated or serious violations.--The 
        Commission shall revoke a certification under subsection (a) if 
        a penalty is assessed against the candidate under section 
        309(d) with respect to the election.
            ``(3) Effect of revocation.--If a candidate's certification 
        is revoked under this subsection--
                    ``(A) the candidate shall repay to the Clean Money 
                Fund established under section 531--
                            ``(i) an amount equal to the value of the 
                        political advertising vouchers received under 
                        this title with respect to the election, plus 
                        interest (at a rate determined by the 
                        Commission on the basis of an appropriate 
                        annual percentage rate for the month involved) 
                        on any such amount received; plus
                            ``(ii) an amount equal to any payment the 
                        candidate received under this title to defray 
                        the costs of postage with respect to the 
                        election, plus interest (at a rate determined 
                        by the Commission on the basis of an 
                        appropriate annual percentage rate for the 
                        month involved) on any such payment received;
                    ``(B) the candidate may not receive political 
                advertising vouchers or payments to defray the costs of 
                postage under this title during the remainder of the 
                election cycle involved; and
                    ``(C) the candidate may not be certified as a 
                participating candidate under this title with respect 
                to the next election cycle.
            ``(4) Prohibiting participation in future elections for 
        candidates with multiple revocations.--If the Commission 
        revokes the certification of an individual as a participating 
        candidate under this title 3 times, the individual may not be 
        certified as a participating candidate under this title with 
        respect to any subsequent election.
    ``(c) Voluntary Withdrawal From Participating During Qualifying 
Period.--At any time during the Clean Money qualifying period described 
in section 511(c), a candidate may withdraw from participation in the 
program under this title by submitting to the Commission a statement of 
withdrawal (without regard to whether or not the Commission has 
certified the candidate as a participating candidate under this title 
as of the time the candidate submits such statement), so long as the 
candidate has not received a political advertising voucher under 
section 501 or a payment under section 503.
    ``(d) Participating Candidate Defined.--In this title, a 
`participating candidate' means a candidate for the office of Senator 
or Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the 
Congress who is certified under this section as eligible to receive 
benefits under this title.

 ``Subtitle C--Requirements for Candidates Certified as Participating 
                               Candidates

``SEC. 521. CONTRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) Permitted Sources of Contributions and Expenditures.--Except 
as provided in subsection (c), a participating candidate with respect 
to a general election shall, with respect to that election and any 
subsequent runoff election in that election cycle for the office 
involved, accept no contributions from any source and make no 
expenditures from any amounts, other than the following:
            ``(1) Qualified small dollar contributions.
            ``(2) Political advertising vouchers and payments to defray 
        the costs of postage under this title.
            ``(3) Contributions from political committees established 
        and maintained by a national or State political party, subject 
        to the applicable limitations of section 315.
            ``(4) Subject to subsection (b), personal funds of the 
        candidate or of any immediate family member of the candidate 
        (other than funds received through qualified small dollar 
        contributions).
            ``(5) Contributions from individuals who are otherwise 
        permitted to make contributions under this Act, subject to the 
        applicable limitations of section 315, except that the 
        aggregate amount of contributions a participating candidate may 
        accept from any individual with respect to any such election 
        after the date the candidate files a statement of intent under 
        section 511(a)(1) may not exceed $1,000.
            ``(6) Contributions from multicandidate political 
        committees, subject to the applicable limitations of section 
        315.
    ``(b) Special Rules for Personal Funds.--
            ``(1) Limit on amount.--A candidate who is certified as a 
        participating candidate may use personal funds (including 
        personal funds of any immediate family member of the candidate) 
        so long as--
                    ``(A) the aggregate amount used with respect to the 
                general election and any subsequent runoff election in 
                that election cycle (including any period of the cycle 
                occurring prior to the candidate's certification as a 
                participating candidate) does not exceed $10,000; and
                    ``(B) the funds are used only for making direct 
                payments for the receipt of goods and services which 
                constitute authorized expenditures in connection with 
                such elections.
            ``(2) Immediate family member defined.--In this subsection, 
        the term `immediate family' means, with respect to a 
        candidate--
                    ``(A) the candidate's spouse;
                    ``(B) a child, stepchild, parent, grandparent, 
                brother, half-brother, sister, or half-sister of the 
                candidate or the candidate's spouse; and
                    ``(C) the spouse of any person described in 
                subparagraph (B).
    ``(c) Exceptions.--
            ``(1) Exception for contributions received prior to filing 
        of statement of intent.--A candidate who has accepted 
        contributions that are not described in subsection (a) is not 
        in violation of subsection (a), but only if all such 
        contributions are--
                    ``(A) returned to the contributor;
                    ``(B) submitted to the Commission for deposit in 
                the Clean Money Fund established under section 531; or
                    ``(C) spent in accordance with paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Exception for expenditures made prior to filing of 
        statement of intent.--If a candidate has made expenditures 
        prior to the date the candidate files a statement of intent 
        under section 511(a)(1) that the candidate is prohibited from 
        making under subsection (a) or subsection (b), the candidate is 
        not in violation of such subsection if the aggregate amount of 
        the prohibited expenditures is less than the amount referred to 
        in section 512(a)(2) (relating to the total dollar amount of 
        qualified small dollar contributions which the candidate is 
        required to obtain) which is applicable to the candidate.
            ``(3) Exception for campaign surpluses from a previous 
        election.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), unexpended 
        contributions received by the candidate or an authorized 
        committee of the candidate with respect to a previous election 
        may be retained, but only if the candidate places the funds in 
        escrow and refrains from raising additional funds for or 
        spending funds from that account during the election cycle in 
        which a candidate is a participating candidate.
            ``(4) Exception for contributions received before the 
        effective date of this title.--Contributions received and 
        expenditures made by the candidate or an authorized committee 
        of the candidate prior to the effective date of this title 
        shall not constitute a violation of subsection (a) or (b). 
        Unexpended contributions shall be treated the same as campaign 
        surpluses under paragraph (3), and expenditures made shall 
        count against the limit in paragraph (2).
    ``(d) Special Rule for Coordinated Party Expenditures.--For 
purposes of this section, a payment made by a political party in 
coordination with a participating candidate shall not be treated as a 
contribution to or as an expenditure made by the participating 
candidate.
    ``(e) Prohibition on Joint Fundraising Committees.--
            ``(1) Prohibition.--An authorized committee of a candidate 
        who is certified as a participating candidate under this title 
        with respect to an election may not establish a joint 
        fundraising committee with a political committee other than 
        another authorized committee of the candidate.
            ``(2) Status of existing committees for prior elections.--
        If a candidate established a joint fundraising committee 
        described in paragraph (1) with respect to a prior election for 
        which the candidate was not certified as a participating 
        candidate under this title and the candidate does not terminate 
        the committee, the candidate shall not be considered to be in 
        violation of paragraph (1) so long as that joint fundraising 
        committee does not receive any contributions or make any 
        disbursements during the election cycle for which the candidate 
        is certified as a participating candidate under this title.
    ``(f) Prohibition on Leadership PACs.--
            ``(1) Prohibition.--A candidate who is certified as a 
        participating candidate under this title with respect to an 
        election may not establish, finance, maintain, or control a 
        leadership PAC.
            ``(2) Status of existing leadership pacs.--If a candidate 
        established, financed, maintained, or controlled a leadership 
        PAC prior to being certified as a participating candidate under 
        this title and the candidate does not terminate the leadership 
        PAC, the candidate shall not be considered to be in violation 
        of paragraph (1) so long as the leadership PAC does not receive 
        any contributions or make any disbursements during the election 
        cycle for which the candidate is certified as a participating 
        candidate under this title.
            ``(3) Leadership pac defined.--In this subsection, the term 
        `leadership PAC' has the meaning given such term in section 
        304(i)(8)(B).

``SEC. 522. ADMINISTRATION OF CAMPAIGN.

    ``(a) Separate Accounting for Various Permitted Contributions.--
Each authorized committee of a candidate certified as a participating 
candidate under this title--
            ``(1) shall provide for separate accounting of each type of 
        contribution described in section 521(a) which is received by 
        the committee; and
            ``(2) shall provide for separate accounting for the 
        political advertising vouchers received under this title.
    ``(b) Enhanced Disclosure of Information on Donors.--
            ``(1) Mandatory identification of individuals making 
        qualified small dollar contributions.--Each authorized 
        committee of a participating candidate under this title shall 
        elect, in accordance with section 304(b)(3)(A), to include in 
        the reports the committee submits under section 304 the 
        identification of each person who makes a qualified small 
        dollar contribution to the committee.
            ``(2) Mandatory disclosure through internet.--Each 
        authorized committee of a participating candidate under this 
        title shall ensure that all information reported to the 
        Commission under this Act with respect to contributions and 
        expenditures of the committee is available to the public on the 
        Internet (whether through a site established for purposes of 
        this subsection, a hyperlink on another public site of the 
        committee, or a hyperlink on a report filed electronically with 
        the Commission) in a searchable, sortable, and downloadable 
        manner.

``SEC. 523. RETURNING UNUSED VOUCHERS AND FUNDS AFTER ELECTION.

    ``Not later than the date that is 180 days after the last election 
for which a candidate certified as a participating candidate qualifies 
to be on the ballot during the election cycle involved, such 
participating candidate shall return to the Commission--
            ``(1) any political advertising vouchers provided to 
        authorized committees of the candidate which remain unused as 
        of such date; and
            ``(2) any amounts remaining in the separate, segregated 
        accounts established by authorized committees of the candidate 
        under section 503(c) for the receipt of the payments made under 
        this title to defray the costs of postage incurred in 
        connection with the election.

                ``Subtitle D--Administrative Provisions

``SEC. 531. CLEAN MONEY FUND.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury a fund 
to be known as the `Clean Money Fund'.
    ``(b) Amounts Held by Fund.--The Fund shall consist of the 
following amounts:
            ``(1) Appropriated amounts.--Amounts appropriated to the 
        Fund, including trust fund amounts appropriated pursuant to 
        applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
            ``(2) Other deposits.--Amounts deposited into the Fund 
        under--
                    ``(A) section 521(c) (relating to exceptions to 
                contribution requirements);
                    ``(B) section 533 (relating to violations); and
                    ``(C) any other section of this Act.
            ``(3) Investment returns.--Interest on, and the proceeds 
        from, the sale or redemption of, any obligations held by the 
        Fund under subsection (c).
    ``(c) Investment.--The Commission shall invest portions of the Fund 
in obligations of the United States in the same manner as provided 
under section 9602(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    ``(d) Use of Fund.--
            ``(1) In general.--Amounts in the Fund shall be available 
        without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation to 
        redeem vouchers which are accepted by broadcasting stations as 
        payment for the purchase of broadcast time for political 
        advertisements under subtitle A.
            ``(2) Insufficient amounts.--Under regulations established 
        by the Commission, rules similar to the rules of section 
        9006(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall apply.

``SEC. 532. ADMINISTRATION BY COMMISSION.

    ``(a) Regulations.--The Commission shall prescribe regulations to 
carry out the purposes of this title, including regulations--
            ``(1) verifying the amount of qualified small dollar 
        contributions with respect to a candidate;
            ``(2) effectively and efficiently monitoring and enforcing 
        the limits on the raising of qualified small dollar 
        contributions;
            ``(3) effectively and efficiently monitoring and enforcing 
        the limits on the use of personal funds by participating 
        candidates; and
            ``(4) monitoring the use of political advertising vouchers 
        and payments provided under this title through audits of not 
        fewer than \1/10\ (or, in the case of the first 3 election 
        cycles during which the program under this title is in effect, 
        not fewer than \1/3\) of all participating candidates or other 
        mechanisms.
    ``(b) Review of Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--After each regularly scheduled general 
        election for Federal office, the Commission shall conduct a 
        comprehensive review of the program under this title, 
        including--
                    ``(A) the maximum and minimum dollar amounts of 
                qualified small dollar contributions under section 504;
                    ``(B) the number and value of qualified small 
                dollar contributions a candidate is required to obtain 
                under section 512(a) to be eligible for certification 
                as a participating candidate;
                    ``(C) the value of the political advertising 
                vouchers a candidate may receive under this title;
                    ``(D) the amount of the payment made to a candidate 
                under this title to defray the cots of postage;
                    ``(E) the overall satisfaction of participating 
                candidates and the American public with the program; 
                and
                    ``(F) such other matters relating to financing of 
                campaigns as the Commission determines are appropriate.
            ``(2) Criteria for review.--In conducting the review under 
        paragraph (1), the Commission shall consider the following:
                    ``(A) Qualified small dollar contributions.--The 
                Commission shall consider whether the number and dollar 
                amounts of qualified small dollar contributions 
                required strikes an appropriate balance regarding the 
                importance of voter involvement, the need to assure 
                adequate incentives for participating, and fiscal 
                responsibility, taking into consideration the number of 
                primary and general election participating candidates, 
                the electoral performance of those candidates, program 
                cost, and any other information the Oversight 
                Commission determines is appropriate.
                    ``(B) Review of payment levels.--The Commission 
                shall consider whether the totality of the amount of 
                funds allowed to be raised by participating candidates 
                (including through qualified small dollar 
                contributions) and the value of political advertising 
                vouchers and payments made to defray the costs of 
                postage provided under this title are sufficient for 
                voters in each State to learn about the candidates to 
                cast an informed vote, taking into account the historic 
                amount of spending by winning candidates, media costs, 
                primary election dates, and any other information the 
                Commission determines is appropriate.
            ``(3) Recommendations for adjustment of amounts.--Based on 
        the review conducted under paragraph (1), the Commission may 
        recommend to Congress adjustments of the following amounts:
                    ``(A) The number and value of qualified small 
                dollar contributions a candidate is required to obtain 
                under section 512(a) to be eligible for certification 
                as a participating candidate.
                    ``(B) The value of the political advertising 
                vouchers a candidate may receive under this title.
                    ``(C) The amount of the payment made to a candidate 
                under this title to defray the costs of postage.
    ``(c) Reports.--Not later than each June 1 which follows a 
regularly scheduled general election for Federal office for which 
payments were made under this title, the Commission shall submit to the 
Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives a 
report--
            ``(1) containing an analysis of the review conducted under 
        subsection (b), including a detailed statement of the 
        Commission's findings, conclusions, and recommendations based 
        on such review, including any recommendations for adjustments 
        of amounts described in subsection (b)(3); and
            ``(2) documenting, evaluating, and making recommendations 
        relating to the administrative implementation and enforcement 
        of the provisions of this title.

``SEC. 533. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.

    ``(a) Civil Penalty for Violation of Contribution and Expenditure 
Requirements.--If a candidate who has been certified as a participating 
candidate accepts a contribution or makes an expenditure that is 
prohibited under section 521, the Commission may assess a civil penalty 
against the candidate in an amount that is not more than 3 times the 
amount of the contribution or expenditure. Any amounts collected under 
this subsection shall be deposited into the Clean Money Fund 
established under section 531.
    ``(b) Repayment for Improper Use Payments Made To Defray Costs of 
Postage.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the Commission determines that any 
        payment made to a candidate under this title to defray the 
        costs of postage was not used as provided for in this title, 
        the Commission shall so notify the candidate and the candidate 
        shall pay to the Fund an amount equal to--
                    ``(A) the value of the payments so used; and
                    ``(B) interest on any such amounts (at a rate 
                determined by the Commission).
            ``(2) Other action not precluded.--Any action by the 
        Commission in accordance with this subsection shall not 
        preclude enforcement proceedings by the Commission in 
        accordance with section 309(a), including a referral by the 
        Commission to the Attorney General in the case of an apparent 
        knowing and willful violation of this title.
    ``(c) Prohibiting Certain Candidates From Qualifying as 
Participating Candidates.--
            ``(1) Candidates with multiple civil penalties.--If the 
        Commission assesses three or more civil penalties under 
        subsection (a) against a candidate (with respect to either a 
        single election or multiple elections), the Commission may 
        refuse to certify the candidate as a participating candidate 
        under this title with respect to any subsequent election, 
        except that if each of the penalties were assessed as the 
        result of a knowing and willful violation of any provision of 
        this Act, the candidate is not eligible to be certified as a 
        participating candidate under this title with respect to any 
        subsequent election.
            ``(2) Candidates subject to criminal penalty.--A candidate 
        is not eligible to be certified as a participating candidate 
        under this title with respect to an election if a penalty has 
        been assessed against the candidate under section 309(d) with 
        respect to any previous election.

``SEC. 534. APPEALS PROCESS.

    ``(a) Review of Actions.--Any action by the Commission in carrying 
out this title shall be subject to review by the United States Court of 
Appeals for the District of Columbia upon petition filed in the Court 
not later than 30 days after the Commission takes the action for which 
the review is sought.
    ``(b) Procedures.--The provisions of chapter 7 of title 5, United 
States Code, apply to judicial review under this section.

``SEC. 535. INDEXING OF AMOUNTS.

    ``(a) Indexing.--In any calendar year after 2016, section 
315(c)(1)(B) shall apply to each amount described in subsection (b) in 
the same manner as such section applies to the limitations established 
under subsections (a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B), (a)(3), and (h) of such 
section, except that for purposes of applying such section to the 
amounts described in subsection (b), the `base period' shall be 2015.
    ``(b) Amounts Described.--The amounts described in this subsection 
are as follows:
            ``(1) The amount referred to in section 501(b)(2) (relating 
        to the formula used to determine the value of a political 
        advertising voucher provided to a participating candidate under 
        this title).
            ``(2) The amount referred to in section 503(b)(2) (relating 
        to the formula used to determine the amount of the payment made 
        to a participating candidate under this title to defray the 
        costs of postage).
            ``(3) The amounts referred to in section 504(a)(1) 
        (relating to the amount of a qualified small dollar 
        contribution).
            ``(4) The amount referred to in section 512(a)(2) (relating 
        to the total dollar amount of qualified small dollar 
        contributions).
            ``(5) The amount referred to in section 521(a)(5) (relating 
        to the aggregate amount of contributions a participating 
        candidate may accept from any individual with respect to an 
        election).
            ``(6) The amount referred to in section 521(b)(1) (relating 
        to the amount of personal funds that may be used by a candidate 
        who is certified as a participating candidate).

``SEC. 536. ELECTION CYCLE DEFINED.

    ``In this title, the term `election cycle' means, with respect to 
an election for an office, the period beginning on the day after the 
date of the most recent general election for that office (or, if the 
general election resulted in a runoff election, the date of the runoff 
election) and ending on the date of the next general election for that 
office (or, if the general election resulted in a runoff election, the 
date of the runoff election).''.

SEC. 102. CONTRIBUTIONS AND EXPENDITURES BY MULTICANDIDATE AND 
              POLITICAL PARTY POLITICAL COMMITTEES ON BEHALF OF 
              PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES.

    (a) Authorizing Contributions Only From Separate Accounts 
Consisting of Qualified Small Dollar Contributions.--Section 315(a) of 
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30116(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(9) In the case of a multicandidate political committee or any 
political committee of a political party, the committee may make a 
contribution to a candidate who is a participating candidate under 
title V with respect to an election only if the contribution is paid 
from a separate, segregated account of the committee which consists 
solely of contributions which meet the following requirements:
            ``(A) Each such contribution is in an amount which meets 
        the requirements for the amount of a qualified small dollar 
        contribution under section 504(a)(1) with respect to the 
        election involved.
            ``(B) Each such contribution is made by an individual who 
        is not otherwise prohibited from making a contribution under 
        this Act.
            ``(C) The individual who makes the contribution does not 
        make contributions to the committee during the year in an 
        aggregate amount that exceeds the limit described in section 
        504(a)(1).''.
    (b) Permitting Unlimited Coordinated Expenditures From Small Dollar 
Sources by Political Parties.--Section 315(d) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 
30116(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``The national 
        committee'' and inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph 
        (5), the national committee''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) The limits described in paragraph (3) do not apply in the 
case of expenditures in connection with the general election campaign 
of a candidate for the office of Senator or Representative in, or 
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress who is a 
participating candidate under title V with respect to the election, but 
only if--
            ``(A) the expenditures are paid from a separate, segregated 
        account of the committee which is described in subsection 
        (a)(9); and
            ``(B) the expenditures are the sole source of funding 
        provided by the committee to the candidate.''.

SEC. 103. PROHIBITING USE OF CONTRIBUTIONS BY PARTICIPATING CANDIDATES 
              FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTION.

    Section 313 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 
30114) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Restrictions on Permitted Uses of Funds by Candidates 
Receiving Small Dollar Financing.--Notwithstanding paragraph (2), (3), 
or (4) of subsection (a), if a candidate for election for the office of 
Senator or Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, 
the Congress is certified as a participating candidate under title V 
with respect to the election, any contribution which the candidate is 
permitted to accept under such title may be used only for authorized 
expenditures in connection with the candidate's campaign for such 
office.''.

          TITLE II--EXPANDING CANDIDATE ACCESS TO ADVERTISING

SEC. 201. BROADCASTS BY CANDIDATES.

    (a) Lowest Unit Charge.--Section 315(b)(1)(A) of the Communications 
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 315(b)(1)(A)) is amended by inserting ``for 
preemptible use thereof'' after ``station''.
    (b) Preemption; Audits.--Section 315 of the Communications Act of 
1934 (47 U.S.C. 315) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (g) and 
        transferring such subsection, as redesignated, to the end;
            (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f) and 
        transferring such subsection, as redesignated, so that it 
        appears after subsection (e); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Preemption.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2) and 
        notwithstanding the requirements of subsection (b)(1)(A), a 
        licensee may not preempt the use of a broadcasting station by a 
        legally qualified candidate that has purchased and paid for 
        such use under circumstances entitling such candidate to 
        receive the rate under such subsection for such use.
            ``(2) Circumstances beyond control of licensee.--If a 
        program to be broadcast by a broadcasting station is preempted 
        because of circumstances beyond the control of the licensee, an 
        advertisement that is scheduled to be broadcast during such 
        program and the broadcast of which constitutes use of the 
        broadcasting station described in paragraph (1) shall be 
        treated in the same fashion as a comparable commercial 
        advertisement.
    ``(d) Audits.--During the 45-day period preceding the date of a 
primary or primary runoff election and during the 60-day period 
preceding the date of a general election or special election, the 
Commission shall conduct such audits as it considers necessary to 
ensure that the licensee of each broadcasting station is allocating use 
of the station in accordance with this section and in a manner that 
does not warrant revocation of the station license under section 
312(a)(7).''.
    (c) Revocation of License for Failure To Allow Access by Federal 
Candidates.--Section 312 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
312) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(7)--
                    (A) by inserting ``in accordance with subsection 
                (h),'' before ``for willful'';
                    (B) by striking ``or repeated'';
                    (C) by inserting ``or a cable system'' after ``non-
                commercial educational broadcast station,''; and
                    (D) by striking ``his candidacy'' and inserting 
                ``the candidacy of the candidate, under the same terms, 
                conditions, and business practices as apply to the 
                most-favored advertiser of the broadcasting station or 
                cable system''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Conditions for Revocation for Failure To Allow Access by 
Federal Candidates.--
            ``(1) Three-strikes rule.--The Commission may revoke a 
        station license or construction permit under subsection (a)(7) 
        only if the Commission finds that the licensee or permittee has 
        engaged in at least 3 failures described in such subsection 
        with respect to the broadcasting station or cable system to 
        which the license or permit relates.
            ``(2) Duration.--In the case of a person whose station 
        license or construction permit with respect to a broadcasting 
        station or cable system has been revoked under subsection 
        (a)(7)--
                    ``(A) the Commission may not grant a station 
                license or construction permit to such person with 
                respect to such broadcasting station or cable system 
                during the 5-year period following the revocation; and
                    ``(B) if the Commission grants such a station 
                license or construction permit to such person after 
                such 5-year period, the number of failures described in 
                subsection (a)(7) shall be calculated for purposes of 
                paragraph (1) without regard to any such failures that 
                occurred while a previous license or permit was in 
                effect.''.
    (d) Technical Amendments.--Section 315 of the Communications Act of 
1934 (47 U.S.C. 315), as amended by subsection (b), is further 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``If any licensee'' and 
        inserting ``Equal Opportunities for Candidates for Same 
        Office.--If any licensee'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by moving subparagraphs (A) and 
        (B) 2 ems to the right;
            (3) in subsection (f), as redesignated, by striking ``The 
        Commission'' and inserting ``Regulations.--The Commission''; 
        and
            (4) in subsection (g), as redesignated, by striking ``For 
        purposes'' and inserting ``Definitions.--For purposes''.

                  TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 301. SEVERABILITY.

    If any provision of this Act or any amendment made by this Act, or 
the application of a provision of this Act or an amendment made by this 
Act to any person or circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional, the 
remainder of this Act, and the application of the provisions to any 
person or circumstance, shall not be affected by the holding.
                                 <all>
