[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2577 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                          May 19, 2016.
    Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 
2577) entitled ``An Act making appropriations for the Departments of 
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other 
purposes.'', do pass with the following

                               AMENDMENT:

            Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
      following:

   DIVISION A--DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, AND HOUSING AND URBAN 
                   DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES

     The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Departments of 
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes, 
namely:

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Office of the Secretary

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, 
$116,396,000, of which not to exceed $2,758,000 shall be available for 
the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to exceed $1,040,000 shall 
be available for the immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary; not to 
exceed $20,772,000 shall be available for the Office of the General 
Counsel; not to exceed $11,108,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy; not to exceed 
$16,020,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Budget and Programs; not to exceed $2,569,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental 
Affairs; not to exceed $30,054,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Administration; not to exceed $2,142,000 
shall be available for the Office of Public Affairs; not to exceed 
$1,760,000 shall be available for the Office of the Executive 
Secretariat; not to exceed $11,089,000 shall be available for the 
Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response; and not to 
exceed $17,084,000 shall be available for the Office of the Chief 
Information Officer:  Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation is 
authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office of the Office 
of the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the Secretary:  
Provided further, That no appropriation for any office shall be 
increased or decreased by more than 5 percent by all such transfers:  
Provided further, That notice of any change in funding greater than 5 
percent shall be submitted for approval to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$60,000 shall be for allocation within the Department for official 
reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may determine:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
excluding fees authorized in Public Law 107-71, there may be credited 
to this appropriation up to $2,500,000 in funds received in user fees:  
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for the position of Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.

                        research and technology

    For necessary expenses related to the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Research and Technology, $13,044,000, of which $8,218,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That there 
may be credited to this appropriation, to be available until expended, 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training:  
Provided further, That any reference in law, regulation, judicial 
proceedings, or elsewhere to the Research and Innovative Technology 
Administration shall continue to be deemed to be a reference to the 
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology of the 
Department of Transportation.

                  national infrastructure investments

    For capital investments in surface transportation infrastructure, 
$525,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2020:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation shall distribute funds 
provided under this heading as discretionary grants to be awarded to a 
State, local government, transit agency, or a collaboration among such 
entities on a competitive basis for projects that will have a 
significant impact on the Nation, a metropolitan area, or a region:  
Provided further, That projects eligible for funding provided under 
this heading shall include, but not be limited to, highway or bridge 
projects eligible under title 23, United States Code; public 
transportation projects eligible under chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code; passenger and freight rail transportation projects; and 
port infrastructure investments (including inland port infrastructure 
and land ports of entry):  Provided further, That the Secretary may use 
up to 20 percent of the funds made available under this heading for the 
purpose of paying the subsidy and administrative costs of projects 
eligible for Federal credit assistance under chapter 6 of title 23, 
United States Code, if the Secretary finds that such use of the funds 
would advance the purposes of this paragraph:  Provided further, That 
in distributing funds provided under this heading, the Secretary shall 
take such measures so as to ensure an equitable geographic distribution 
of funds, an appropriate balance in addressing the needs of urban and 
rural areas, and the investment in a variety of transportation modes:  
Provided further, That a grant funded under this heading shall be not 
less than $5,000,000 and not greater than $25,000,000:  Provided 
further, That not more than 10 percent of the funds made available 
under this heading may be awarded to projects in a single State:  
Provided further, That the Federal share of the costs for which an 
expenditure is made under this heading shall be, at the option of the 
recipient, up to 80 percent:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall give priority to projects that require a contribution of Federal 
funds in order to complete an overall financing package:  Provided 
further, That not less than 30 percent of the funds provided under this 
heading shall be for projects located in rural areas:  Provided 
further, That for projects located in rural areas, the minimum grant 
size shall be $1,000,000 and the Secretary may increase the Federal 
share of costs above 80 percent:  Provided further, That projects 
conducted using funds provided under this heading must comply with the 
requirements of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall conduct a new 
competition to select the grants and credit assistance awarded under 
this heading:  Provided further, That the Secretary may retain up to 
$20,000,000 of the funds provided under this heading, and may transfer 
portions of those funds to the Administrators of the Federal Highway 
Administration, the Federal Transit Administration, the Federal 
Railroad Administration and the Maritime Administration, to fund the 
award and oversight of grants and credit assistance made under the 
National Infrastructure Investments program.

     national surface transportation and innovative finance bureau

    For necessary expenses for the establishment and administration of 
a new National Surface Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau 
(the Bureau) within the Office of the Secretary of Transportation, 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation shall use such amount for the necessary 
expenses to establish the Bureau and to fulfill the responsibilities of 
the Bureau, as detailed in section 9001 of the Fixing America's Surface 
Transportation (FAST) Act (Public Law 114-94) (49 U.S.C. 116):  
Provided further, That the Secretary is required to receive the advance 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations prior to 
exercising the authorities of 49 U.S.C. 116(h):  Provided further, That 
the program be available to other Federal agencies, States, 
municipalities and project sponsors seeking Federal transportation 
expertise in obtaining financing.

                      financial management capital

    For necessary expenses for upgrading and enhancing the Department 
of Transportation's financial systems and re-engineering business 
processes, $4,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2018.

                       cyber security initiatives

    For necessary expenses for cyber security initiatives, including 
necessary upgrades to wide area network and information technology 
infrastructure, improvement of network perimeter controls and identity 
management, testing and assessment of information technology against 
business, security, and other requirements, implementation of Federal 
cyber security initiatives and information infrastructure enhancements, 
implementation of enhanced security controls on network devices, 
$15,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2018.

                         office of civil rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $9,751,000.

           transportation planning, research, and development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, to remain available until expended, $12,043,000:  Provided, 
That of such amount, $3,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses of the 
Interagency Infrastructure Permitting Improvement Center (IIPIC):  
Provided further, That there may be transferred to this appropriation, 
to remain available until expended, amounts from other Federal agencies 
for expenses incurred under this heading for IIPIC activities not 
related to transportation infrastructure:  Provided further, That the 
tools and analysis developed by the IIPIC shall be available to other 
Federal agencies for the permitting and review of major infrastructure 
projects not related to transportation to the extent that other Federal 
agencies provide funding to the Department as provided for under the 
previous proviso.

                          working capital fund

    For necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of 
the Working Capital Fund, not to exceed $190,389,000 shall be paid from 
appropriations made available to the Department of Transportation:  
Provided, That such services shall be provided on a competitive basis 
to entities within the Department of Transportation:  Provided further, 
That the above limitation on operating expenses shall not apply to non-
DOT entities:  Provided further, That no funds appropriated in this Act 
to an agency of the Department shall be transferred to the Working 
Capital Fund without majority approval of the Working Capital Fund 
Steering Committee and approval of the Secretary:  Provided further, 
That no assessments may be levied against any program, budget activity, 
subactivity or project funded by this Act unless notice of such 
assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such 
Committees.

               minority business resource center program

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $339,000, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. 332:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That these funds are available 
to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be 
guaranteed, not to exceed $18,367,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
guaranteed loan program, $602,000.

       small and disadvantaged business utilization and outreach

    For the necessary expenses to establish Small and Disadvantaged 
Business Utilization and Outreach, that will ensure small and 
disadvantaged business policies of the Secretary of Transportation are 
developed and implemented in a fair, efficient and effective manner, 
$4,646,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these funds may be used for 
business opportunities related to any mode of transportation.

                        payments to air carriers

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    In addition to funds made available from any other source to carry 
out the essential air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731 through 
41742, $150,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That in 
determining between or among carriers competing to provide service to a 
community, the Secretary may consider the relative subsidy requirements 
of the carriers:  Provided further, That basic essential air service 
minimum requirements shall not include the 15-passenger capacity 
requirement under subsection 41732(b)(3) of title 49, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act or any 
other Act shall be used to enter into a new contract with a community 
located less than 40 miles from the nearest small hub airport before 
the Secretary has negotiated with the community over a local cost 
share:  Provided further, That amounts authorized to be distributed for 
the essential air service program under subsection 41742(b) of title 
49, United States Code, shall be made available immediately from 
amounts otherwise provided to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration:  Provided further, That the Administrator may reimburse 
such amounts from fees credited to the account established under 
section 45303 of title 49, United States Code.

  administrative provisions--office of the secretary of transportation

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Department of Transportation may be obligated for the Office of the 
Secretary of Transportation to approve assessments or reimbursable 
agreements pertaining to funds appropriated to the modal 
administrations in this Act, except for activities underway on the date 
of enactment of this Act, unless such assessments or agreements have 
completed the normal reprogramming process for Congressional 
notification.
    Sec. 102.  Notwithstanding section 3324 of title 31, United States 
Code, in addition to authority provided by section 327 of title 49, 
United States Code, the Department's Working Capital Fund is hereby 
authorized to provide payments in advance to vendors that are necessary 
to carry out the Federal transit pass transportation fringe benefit 
program under Executive Order 13150 and section 3049 of Public Law 109-
59:  Provided, That the Department shall include adequate safeguards in 
the contract with the vendors to ensure timely and high-quality 
performance under the contract.
    Sec. 103.  The Secretary shall post on the Web site of the 
Department of Transportation a schedule of all meetings of the Council 
on Credit and Finance, including the agenda for each meeting, and 
require the Council on Credit and Finance to record the decisions and 
actions of each meeting.
    Sec. 104.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act--
            (1) the total amount made available under the heading 
        ``administrative expenses'' under the heading ``Federal Transit 
        Administration'' shall be $113,165,000; and
            (2) the total amount made available under the heading 
        ``salaries and expenses'' under the heading ``Office of the 
        Secretary'' shall be $113,896,000.

                    Federal Aviation Administration

                               operations

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the 
public, lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only, in addition to amounts made available by Public Law 112-95, 
$10,048,352,000 of which $9,190,000,000 shall be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund, of which not to exceed $7,593,785,000 
shall be available for air traffic organization activities; not to 
exceed $1,286,982,000 shall be available for aviation safety 
activities; not to exceed $19,826,000 shall be available for commercial 
space transportation activities; not to exceed $771,342,000 shall be 
available for finance and management activities; not to exceed 
$60,155,000 shall be available for NextGen and operations planning 
activities; not to exceed $107,161,000 shall be available for security 
and hazardous materials safety; and not to exceed $209,101,000 shall be 
available for staff offices:  Provided, That not to exceed 2 percent of 
any budget activity, except for aviation safety budget activity, may be 
transferred to any budget activity under this heading:  Provided 
further, That no transfer may increase or decrease any appropriation by 
more than 2 percent:  Provided further, That any transfer in excess of 
2 percent shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
405 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section:  Provided further, That not later than March 31 of each fiscal 
year hereafter, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration shall transmit to Congress an annual update to the 
report submitted to Congress in December 2004 pursuant to section 221 
of Public Law 108-176:  Provided further, That not later than March 31 
of each fiscal year hereafter, the Administrator shall transmit to 
Congress a companion report that describes a comprehensive strategy for 
staffing, hiring, and training flight standards and aircraft 
certification staff in a format similar to the one utilized for the 
controller staffing plan, including stated attrition estimates and 
numerical hiring goals by fiscal year:  Provided further, That the 
amount herein appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for 
each day after March 31 that such report has not been submitted to 
Congress:  Provided further, That funds may be used to enter into a 
grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting organization to 
assist in the development of aviation safety standards:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for new 
applicants for the second career training program:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the Federal 
Aviation Administration to finalize or implement any regulation that 
would promulgate new aviation user fees not specifically authorized by 
law after the date of the enactment of this Act:  Provided further, 
That there may be credited to this appropriation, as offsetting 
collections, funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
foreign authorities, other public authorities, and private sources for 
expenses incurred in the provision of agency services, including 
receipts for the maintenance and operation of air navigation 
facilities, and for issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, 
including airman, aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for 
tests related thereto, or for processing major repair or alteration 
forms:  Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $159,000,000 shall be for the contract tower 
program, including the contract tower cost share program:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act for aeronautical charting 
and cartography are available for activities conducted by, or 
coordinated through, the Working Capital Fund:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act 
or any other Act may be used to eliminate the Contract Weather 
Observers program at any airport.

                        facilities and equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
acquisition, establishment, technical support services, improvement by 
contract or purchase, and hire of national airspace systems and 
experimental facilities and equipment, as authorized under part A of 
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including initial 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering and 
service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under 
this heading, including aircraft for aviation regulation and 
certification; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$2,838,000,000, of which $489,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2017, and $2,349,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2019:  Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
the establishment, improvement, and modernization of national airspace 
systems:  Provided further, That no later than March 31, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall transmit to the Congress an investment plan for 
the Federal Aviation Administration which includes funding for each 
budget line item for fiscal years 2018 through 2022, with total funding 
for each year of the plan constrained to the funding targets for those 
years as estimated and approved by the Office of Management and Budget: 
 Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated shall be reduced 
by $100,000 per day for each day after March 31 that such report has 
not been submitted to Congress.

                 research, engineering, and development

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle 
VII of title 49, United States Code, including construction of 
experimental facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant, $176,002,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund and to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections, 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, which shall be available for expenses 
incurred for research, engineering, and development.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and 
programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter 
I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law 
authorizing such obligations; for procurement, installation, and 
commissioning of runway incursion prevention devices and systems at 
airports of such title; for grants authorized under section 41743 of 
title 49, United States Code; and for inspection activities and 
administration of airport safety programs, including those related to 
airport operating certificates under section 44706 of title 49, United 
States Code, $3,750,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That none 
of the funds under this heading shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$3,350,000,000 in fiscal year 2017, notwithstanding section 47117(g) of 
title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
under this heading shall be available for the replacement of baggage 
conveyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal baggage areas, or other 
airport improvements that are necessary to install bulk explosive 
detection systems:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
47109(a) of title 49, United States Code, the Government's share of 
allowable project costs under paragraph (2) for subgrants or paragraph 
(3) of that section shall be 95 percent for a project at other than a 
large or medium hub airport that is a successive phase of a multi-
phased construction project for which the project sponsor received a 
grant in fiscal year 2011 for the construction project:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, of funds 
limited under this heading, not more than $107,691,000 shall be 
available for administration, not less than $15,000,000 shall be 
available for the Airport Cooperative Research Program, not less than 
$31,375,000 shall be available for Airport Technology Research, and 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available and 
transferred to ``Office of the Secretary, Salaries and Expenses'' to 
carry out the Small Community Air Service Development Program:  
Provided further, That in addition to airports eligible under section 
41743 of title 49, such program may include the participation of an 
airport that serves a community or consortium that is not larger than a 
small hub airport, according to FAA hub classifications effective at 
the time the Office of the Secretary issues a request for proposals.

       administrative provisions--federal aviation administration

    Sec. 110.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate 
in excess of 600 technical staff-years under the federally funded 
research and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 2017.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pursue or 
adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport sponsors to provide 
to the Federal Aviation Administration without cost building 
construction, maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in airport 
sponsor-owned buildings for services relating to air traffic control, 
air navigation, or weather reporting:  Provided, That the prohibition 
of funds in this section does not apply to negotiations between the 
agency and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-market'' 
rates for these items or to grant assurances that require airport 
sponsors to provide land without cost to the FAA for air traffic 
control facilities.
    Sec. 112.  The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
may reimburse amounts made available to satisfy 49 U.S.C. 41742(a)(1) 
from fees credited under 49 U.S.C. 45303 and any amount remaining in 
such account at the close of that fiscal year shall be made available 
to satisfy section 41742(a)(1) for the subsequent fiscal year.
    Sec. 113.  Amounts collected under section 40113(e) of title 49, 
United States Code, shall be credited to the appropriation current at 
the time of collection, to be merged with and available for the same 
purposes of such appropriation.
    Sec. 114.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
paying premium pay under subsection 5546(a) of title 5, United States 
Code, to any Federal Aviation Administration employee unless such 
employee actually performed work during the time corresponding to such 
premium pay.
    Sec. 115.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for an employee of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
purchase a store gift card or gift certificate through use of a 
Government-issued credit card.
    Sec. 116.  The Secretary shall apportion to the sponsor of an 
airport that received scheduled or unscheduled air service from a large 
certified air carrier (as defined in part 241 of title 14 Code of 
Federal Regulations, or such other regulations as may be issued by the 
Secretary under the authority of section 41709) an amount equal to the 
minimum apportionment specified in 49 U.S.C. 47114(c), if the Secretary 
determines that airport had more than 10,000 passenger boardings in the 
preceding calendar year, based on data submitted to the Secretary under 
part 241 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 117.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for retention bonuses for an employee of the Federal Aviation 
Administration without the prior written approval of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration of the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 118.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available under this Act or any prior Act may be used to 
implement or to continue to implement any limitation on the ability of 
any owner or operator of a private aircraft to obtain, upon a request 
to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, a blocking 
of that owner's or operator's aircraft registration number from any 
display of the Federal Aviation Administration's Aircraft Situational 
Display to Industry data that is made available to the public, except 
data made available to a Government agency, for the noncommercial 
flights of that owner or operator.
    Sec. 119.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than nine political and Presidential 
appointees in the Federal Aviation Administration.
    Sec. 119A.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used to increase fees pursuant to section 44721 of title 49, United 
States Code, until the Federal Aviation Administration provides to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a report that justifies 
all fees related to aeronautical navigation products and explains how 
such fees are consistent with Executive Order 13642.
    Sec. 119B.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to close a 
regional operations center of the Federal Aviation Administration or 
reduce its services unless the Administrator notifies the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 90 full business days 
in advance.
    Sec. 119C.  None of the funds appropriated or limited by this Act 
may be used to change weight restrictions or prior permission rules at 
Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jersey.
    Sec. 119D.  None of the funds provided under this Act may be used 
by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to withhold 
from consideration and approval any application for participation in 
the Contract Tower Program, pending as of January 1, 2016, including 
applications from Cost-share Program participants if the Administrator 
determines such tower is eligible under the criteria set forth in the 
Federal Aviation report, Establishment and Discontinuance Criteria for 
Airport Traffic Control Towers (FAA-APO-90-7).
    Sec. 119E.  For fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall apportion to the sponsor of a primary airport under section 
47114(c)(1)(A) of title 49, United States Code, an amount based on the 
number of passenger boardings at the airport during calendar year 2012 
if the airport had--
            (1) fewer than 10,000 passenger boardings during the 
        calendar year used to calculate the apportionment for fiscal 
        year 2017 under section 116; and
            (2) 10,000 or more passenger boardings during calendar year 
        2012.
    Sec. 119F.  Section 47109(c)(2) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows: ``The Government's share of allowable 
project costs determined under this subsection shall not exceed the 
lesser of 93.75 percent or the highest percentage Government share 
applicable to any project in any State under subsection (b), except 
that at a primary non-hub and non-primary commercial service airport 
located in a State as set forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection 
that is within 15 miles of another State as set forth in paragraph (1) 
of this subsection, the Government's share shall be an average of the 
Government share applicable to any project in each of the States.''.
    Sec. 119G.  Section 911 of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 
2012 (Public Law 112-95) is amended by inserting after subsection (b) 
the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Collaboration and Reporting.--
            ``(1) The Administrator, in coordination with NASA, the 
        Department of Energy, U.S. Department of Agriculture, and after 
        consultation with other relevant agencies shall develop a joint 
        plan to carry out the research under subsection (a) and report 
        back to Congress within 180 days.
            ``(2) The Administrator, in coordination with the 
        Administrator of NASA, the Secretary of Energy, and the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, shall continue research and 
        development activities into the development and deployment of 
        jet fuels as outlined in subsection (a).''.
    Sec. 119H.  Section 332(c) of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act 
of 2012 (Public Law 112-95; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
            ``(6) Inclusion of certain flight test facilities.--The 
        Administrator shall expand the program established under 
        paragraph (1) to permit projects under the program to be 
        carried out at any public entity authorized by the Federal 
        Aviation Administration as an unmanned aircraft system flight 
        test center before January 1, 2009.''.
    Sec. 119I.  Notwithstanding Section 40117(b)(1) of title 49, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Transportation may authorize use of a 
passenger facility charge to finance an eligible airport-related 
project if the eligible agency seeking to impose the new charge 
controls an airport where a $2 passenger facility charge became 
effective on January 1, 2013; and the airport where the passenger 
facility charge is collected and the airport at which the project will 
be carried out were under the control of the same eligible agency on 
October 1, 2015.
    Sec. 119J. (a) Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to Congress a report assessing the importance of 
collegiate aviation flight training operations and the effect of such 
operations on the economy and infrastructure of airports in the 
National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems.
    (b) In the report required by subsection (a), the Comptroller 
General shall include the following:
            (1) An assessment of the total capacity of collegiate 
        aviation flight training programs in the United States to meet 
        the needs of the United States to train commercial pilots.
            (2) An assessment of the footprint of collegiate aviation 
        flight training operations at the airports in the United 
        States.
            (3) An assessment of whether infrastructure beyond that 
        necessary for operations of commercial air carriers is needed 
        at airports at which collegiate aviation flight training 
        operations are conducted.
            (4) If such infrastructure is needed, an estimate of the 
        cost of such infrastructure.
            (5) An identification of funding sources, available before 
        the date of the enactment of this Act or that may become 
        available after such date of enactment, that may be used to 
        construct such infrastructure.
            (6) Recommendations for improving technical and financial 
        assistance to airports to construct such infrastructure.
    Sec. 119K. (a) Subchapter I of chapter 471, as amended by this 
subtitle, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 47144. Use of funds for repairs for runway safety repairs
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Transportation may make project 
grants under this subchapter to an airport described in subsection (b) 
from funds under section 47114 apportioned to that airport or funds 
available for discretionary grants to that airport under section 47115 
to conduct airport development to repair the runway safety area of the 
airport damaged as a result of a natural disaster in order to maintain 
compliance with the regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration 
relating to runway safety areas, without regard to whether construction 
of the runway safety area damaged was carried out using amounts the 
airport received under this subchapter.
    ``(b) Airports Described.--An airport is described in this 
subsection if--
            ``(1) the airport is a public-use airport;
            ``(2) the airport is listed in the National Plan of 
        Integrated Airport Systems of the Federal Aviation 
        Administration;
            ``(3) the runway safety area of the airport was damaged as 
        a result of a natural disaster;
            ``(4) the airport was denied funding under the Robert T. 
        Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
        U.S.C. 4121 et seq.) with respect to the disaster;
            ``(5) the operator of the airport has exhausted all legal 
        remedies, including legal action against any parties (or 
        insurers thereof) whose action or inaction may have contributed 
        to the need for the repair of the runway safety area;
            ``(6) there is still a demonstrated need for the runway 
        safety area to accommodate current or imminent aeronautical 
        demand; and
            ``(7) the cost of repairing or replacing the runway safety 
        area is reasonable in relation to the anticipated operational 
        benefit of repairing the runway safety area, as determined by 
        the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.''.
    (b) The analysis for chapter 471, as amended by this subtitle, is 
further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 47143 
the following:

``47144. Use of funds for repairs for runway safety repairs.''.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

                          (highway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed $433,295,000, together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration, shall be 
obligated for necessary expenses for administration and operation of 
the Federal Highway Administration. In addition, not to exceed 
$2,500,000 shall be transferred to the Appalachian Regional Commission 
in accordance with section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code.

                          federal-aid highways

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Funds available for the implementation or execution of Federal-aid 
highway and highway safety construction programs authorized under 
titles 23 and 49, United States Code, and the provisions of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act shall not exceed total obligations 
of $43,266,100,000 for fiscal year 2017:  Provided, That the Secretary 
may collect and spend fees, as authorized by title 23, United States 
Code, to cover the costs of services of expert firms, including 
counsel, in the field of municipal and project finance to assist in the 
underwriting and servicing of Federal credit instruments and all or a 
portion of the costs to the Federal Government of servicing such credit 
instruments:  Provided further, That such fees are available until 
expended to pay for such costs:  Provided further, That such amounts 
are in addition to administrative expenses that are also available for 
such purpose, and are not subject to any obligation limitation or the 
limitation on administrative expenses under section 608 of title 23, 
United States Code.

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For the payment of obligations incurred in carrying out Federal-aid 
highway and highway safety construction programs authorized under title 
23, United States Code, $44,005,100,000 derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), to remain available until 
expended.

                              (rescission)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Of the unobligated balances of funds apportioned among the States 
under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, a total of 
$2,211,000,000 is hereby rescinded:  Provided, That such rescission 
shall not apply to funds distributed in accordance with sections 
104(b)(3) and 130(f) of title 23, United States Code; section 
133(d)(1)(A) of such title; the first sentence of section 133(d)(3)(A) 
of such title, as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
MAP-21 (Public Law 112-141); sections 133(d)(1) and 163 of such title, 
as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of SAFETEA-LU 
(Public Law 109-59); and section 104(b)(5) of such title, as in effect 
on the day before the date of enactment of MAP-21 (Public Law 112-141): 
 Provided further, That such rescission shall not apply to funds that 
are exempt from the obligation limitation or subject to special no-year 
obligation limitation:  Provided further, That the amount to be 
rescinded from a State shall be determined by multiplying the total 
amount of the rescission by the ratio that the unobligated balances 
subject to the rescission as of September 30, 2016, for the State; 
bears to the unobligated balances subject to the rescission as of 
September 30, 2016, for all States:  Provided further, That the amount 
to be rescinded under this section from each program to which the 
rescission applies within a State shall be determined by multiplying 
the rescission amount calculated for such State by the ratio that the 
unobligated balance as of September 30, 2016, for such program in such 
State; bears to the unobligated balances as of September 30, 2016, for 
all programs to which the rescission applies in such State.

       administrative provisions--federal highway administration

    Sec. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid highways--
                    (A) amounts authorized for administrative expenses 
                and programs by section 104(a) of title 23, United 
                States Code; and
                    (B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of 
                Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts--
                    (A) made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
                (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid 
                highway and highway safety construction programs for 
                previous fiscal years the funds for which are allocated 
                by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Secretary under 
                sections 202 or 204 of title 23, United States Code); 
                and
                    (B) for which obligation limitation was provided in 
                a previous fiscal year;
            (3) determine the proportion that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                highways, less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for the Federal-aid highway and highway 
                safety construction programs (other than sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for provisions of law 
                described in paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection 
                (b) and sums authorized to be appropriated for section 
                119 of title 23, United States Code, equal to the 
                amount referred to in subsection (b)(12) for such 
                fiscal year), less the aggregate of the amounts not 
                distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this 
                subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2), for each of the programs (other than 
        programs to which paragraph (1) applies) that are allocated by 
        the Secretary under the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
        Act and title 23, United States Code, or apportioned by the 
        Secretary under sections 202 or 204 of that title, by 
        multiplying--
                    (A) the proportion determined under paragraph (3); 
                by
                    (B) the amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
                each such program for such fiscal year; and
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
        construction programs that are apportioned by the Secretary 
        under title 23, United States Code (other than the amounts 
        apportioned for the National Highway Performance Program in 
        section 119 of title 23, United States Code, that are exempt 
        from the limitation under subsection (b)(12) and the amounts 
        apportioned under sections 202 and 204 of that title) in the 
        proportion that--
                    (A) amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
                programs that are apportioned under title 23, United 
                States Code, to each State for such fiscal year; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the amounts authorized to be 
                appropriated for the programs that are apportioned 
                under title 23, United States Code, to all States for 
                such fiscal year.
    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid highways shall not apply to obligations 
under or for--
            (1) section 125 of title 23, United States Code;
            (2) section 147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance 
        Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144 note; 92 Stat. 2714);
            (3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981 (95 
        Stat. 1701);
            (4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of the Surface 
        Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
            (5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of the Surface 
        Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 
        (101 Stat. 198);
            (6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface 
        Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
            (7) section 157 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect on June 8, 1998);
            (8) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect for fiscal years 1998 through 2004, but only in an 
        amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
            (9) Federal-aid highway programs for which obligation 
        authority was made available under the Transportation Equity 
        Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subsequent Acts for 
        multiple years or to remain available until expended, but only 
        to the extent that the obligation authority has not lapsed or 
        been used;
            (10) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect for fiscal years 2005 through 2012, but only in an 
        amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
            (11) section 1603 of SAFETEA-LU (23 U.S.C. 118 note; 119 
        Stat. 1248), to the extent that funds obligated in accordance 
        with that section were not subject to a limitation on 
        obligations at the time at which the funds were initially made 
        available for obligation; and
            (12) section 119 of title 23, United States Code (but, for 
        each of fiscal years 2013 through 2017, only in an amount equal 
        to $639,000,000).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall, after August 1 of such fiscal 
year--
            (1) revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made 
        available under subsection (a) if an amount distributed cannot 
        be obligated during that fiscal year; and
            (2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those States able to 
        obligate amounts in addition to those previously distributed 
        during that fiscal year, giving priority to those States having 
        large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
        144 (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
        Public Law 112-141) and 104 of title 23, United States Code.
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways shall apply to 
        contract authority for transportation research programs carried 
        out under--
                    (A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States Code; and
                    (B) title VI of the Fixing America's Surface 
                Transportation Act.
            (2) Exception.--Obligation authority made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal 
                years; and
                    (B) be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
                imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highway and 
                highway safety construction programs for future fiscal 
                years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        distribution of obligation limitation under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds (excluding 
        funds authorized for the program under section 202 of title 23, 
        United States Code) that--
                    (A) are authorized to be appropriated for such 
                fiscal year for Federal-aid highway programs; and
                    (B) the Secretary determines will not be allocated 
                to the States (or will not be apportioned to the States 
                under section 204 of title 23, United States Code), and 
                will not be available for obligation, for such fiscal 
                year because of the imposition of any obligation 
                limitation for such fiscal year.
            (2) Ratio.--Funds shall be distributed under paragraph (1) 
        in the same proportion as the distribution of obligation 
        authority under subsection (a)(5).
            (3) Availability.--Funds distributed to each State under 
        paragraph (1) shall be available for any purpose described in 
        section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to chapter 63 of title 49, United 
States Code, may be credited to the Federal-aid highways account for 
the purpose of reimbursing the Bureau for such expenses:  Provided, 
That such funds shall be subject to the obligation limitation for 
Federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs.
    Sec. 122. (a) Transfer of Amounts.--
            (1) State of virginia.--
                    (A) In general.--Of the total amount apportioned to 
                the State of Virginia under section 104 of title 23, 
                United States Code, for fiscal year 2017, the Secretary 
                of Transportation shall, by the later of November 30, 
                2016, or 30 days after the enactment of this Act, 
                transfer to the National Park Service--
                            (i) an amount equal to--
                                    (I) $30,000,000; multiplied by
                                    (II) the ratio that--
                                            (aa) the amount apportioned 
                                        to the State of Virginia under 
                                        such section 104; bears to
                                            (bb) the combined amount 
                                        apportioned to the State of 
                                        Virginia and the District of 
                                        Columbia under such section 
                                        104; and
                            (ii) an amount of obligation limitation 
                        equal to the amount calculated under clause 
                        (i).
                    (B) Source and amount.--For purpose of the transfer 
                under subparagraph (A), the State of Virginia shall 
                select at the discretion of the State--
                            (i) the programs (among those for which 
                        funding is apportioned as described in that 
                        subparagraph) from which to transfer the amount 
                        specified in that subparagraph; and
                            (ii) the amount to transfer from each of 
                        those programs (equal in aggregate to the 
                        amount calculated under subparagraph (A)(i)).
            (2) District of columbia.--
                    (A) In general.--Of the total amount apportioned to 
                the District of Columbia under section 104 of title 23, 
                United States Code, for fiscal year 2017, the Secretary 
                of Transportation shall, by the later of November 30, 
                2016, or 30 days after the enactment of this Act, 
                transfer to the National Park Service--
                            (i) an amount equal to--
                                    (I) $30,000,000; multiplied by
                                    (II) the ratio that--
                                            (aa) the amount apportioned 
                                        to the District of Columbia 
                                        under such section 104; bears 
                                        to
                                            (bb) the combined amount 
                                        apportioned to the State of 
                                        Virginia and the District of 
                                        Columbia under such section 
                                        104; and
                            (ii) an amount of obligation limitation 
                        equal to the amount calculated under clause 
                        (i).
                    (B) Source and amount.--For purpose of the transfer 
                under subparagraph (A), the District of Columbia shall 
                select at the discretion of the District--
                            (i) the programs (among those for which 
                        funding is apportioned as described in that 
                        subparagraph) from which to transfer the amount 
                        specified in that subparagraph; and
                            (ii) the amount to transfer from each of 
                        those programs (equal in aggregate to the 
                        amount calculated under subparagraph (A)(i)).
            (3) Federal lands transportation program.--Of the amounts 
        otherwise made available to the National Park Service under 
        section 203 of title 23, United States Code, not less than 10 
        percent shall be set aside for purposes of this section.
    (b) Eligibility and Federal Share.--The amounts under subsection 
(a) shall be--
            (1) available to the National Park Service only for 
        projects that--
                    (A) are eligible under section 203 of title 23, 
                United States Code;
                    (B) are located on bridges on the National Highway 
                System that were originally constructed before 1945 and 
                are in poor condition; and
                    (C) each have an estimated total project cost of 
                not less than $150,000,000; and
            (2) subject to the Federal share described in section 
        201(b)(7)(A) of title 23, United States Code.
    (c) Other Funds and Obligation Limitation.--Any funds and 
obligation limitation transferred under subsection (a) shall be in 
addition to funds or obligation limitation otherwise made available to 
the National Park Service under sections 203 and 204 of title 23, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 123.  Not less than 15 days prior to waiving, under his or her 
statutory authority, any Buy America requirement for Federal-aid 
highways projects, the Secretary of Transportation shall make an 
informal public notice and comment opportunity on the intent to issue 
such waiver and the reasons therefor:  Provided, That the Secretary 
shall provide an annual report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on any waivers granted under the Buy America 
requirements.
    Sec. 124.  None of the funds in this Act to the Department of 
Transportation may be used to provide credit assistance unless not less 
than 3 days before any application approval to provide credit 
assistance under sections 603 and 604 of title 23, United States Code, 
the Secretary of Transportation provides notification in writing to the 
following committees: the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations; the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives:  Provided, That such notification shall include, but 
not be limited to, the name of the project sponsor; a description of 
the project; whether credit assistance will be provided as a direct 
loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit; and the amount of credit 
assistance.
    Sec. 125. (a) A State or territory, as defined in section 165 of 
title 23, United States Code, may, hereafter, use for any project 
eligible under section 133(b) of title 23 or section 165 of title 23 
and located within the boundary of the State or territory any earmarked 
amount, and any associated obligation limitation, provided that the 
Department of Transportation for the State or territory for which the 
earmarked amount was originally designated or directed notifies the 
Secretary of Transportation of its intent to use its authority under 
this section and submits a quarterly report to the Secretary 
identifying the projects to which the funding would be applied. 
Notwithstanding the original period of availability of funds to be 
obligated under this section, such funds and associated obligation 
limitation shall remain available for obligation for a period of 3 
fiscal years after the fiscal year in which the Secretary of 
Transportation is notified. The Federal share of the cost of a project 
carried out with funds made available under this section shall be the 
same as associated with the earmark.
    (b) In this section, the term ``earmarked amount'' means--
            (1) congressionally directed spending, as defined in rule 
        XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, identified in a prior 
        law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
        authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
        fiscal years prior to the current fiscal year, and administered 
        by the Federal Highway Administration; or
            (2) a congressional earmark, as defined in rule XXI of the 
        Rules of the House of Representatives identified in a prior 
        law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
        authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
        fiscal years prior to the current fiscal year, and administered 
        by the Federal Highway Administration.
    (c) The authority under subsection (a) may be exercised only for 
those projects or activities that have obligated less than 10 percent 
of the amount made available for obligation as of October 1 of the 
current fiscal year, and shall be applied to projects within the same 
general geographic area within 50 miles for which the funding was 
designated, except that a State or territory may apply such authority 
to unexpended balances of funds from projects or activities the State 
or territory certifies have been closed and for which payments have 
been made under a final voucher.
    (d) The Secretary shall--
            (1) for fiscal year 2017, submit consolidated reports of 
        the information provided by the States and territories each 
        quarter to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations; 
        and
            (2) for fiscal year 2018 and thereafter, post such 
        information annually on the Department's public Web site.
    Sec. 126.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to make a 
grant for a project under section 117 of title 23, United States Code, 
unless the Secretary, at least 60 days before making a grant under that 
section, provides written notification to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations of the proposed grant, including an 
evaluation and justification for the project and the amount of the 
proposed grant award.
    Sec. 127. (a) Identification of High Priority Corridors on National 
Highway System.--Section 1105(c) of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
            ``(89) United States Route 67 from Interstate 40 in North 
        Little Rock, Arkansas, to United States Route 412.
            ``(90) The Edward T. Breathitt Parkway from Interstate 24 
        to Interstate 69.''.
    (b) Inclusion of Certain Route Segments on Interstate System.--
Section 1105(e)(5)(A) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation 
Efficiency Act of 1991 is amended in the first sentence by striking 
``and subsection (c)(83)'' and inserting ``subsection (c)(83), 
subsection (c)(89), and subsection (c)(90)''.
    (c) Designation.--Section 1105(e)(5)(C)(i) of the Intermodal 
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 is amended by adding at 
the end the following: ``The route referred to in subsection (c)(89) is 
designated as Interstate Route I-57. The route referred to in 
subsection (c)(90) is designated as Interstate Route I-169.''.

              Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

              motor carrier safety operations and programs

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the implementation, 
execution and administration of motor carrier safety operations and 
programs pursuant to section 31110 of title 49, United States Code, as 
amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
$277,200,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
Mass Transit Account), together with advances and reimbursements 
received by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the sum of 
which shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
available for implementation, execution or administration of motor 
carrier safety operations and programs authorized under title 49, 
United States Code, shall not exceed total obligations of $277,200,000 
for ``Motor Carrier Safety Operations and Programs'' for fiscal year 
2017, of which $9,180,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2019, is for the research and technology program.

                      motor carrier safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out sections 31102, 
31103, 31104, and 31313 of title 49, United States Code, as amended by 
the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, $367,000,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
Account) and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
available for the implementation or execution of motor carrier safety 
programs shall not exceed total obligations of $367,000,000 in fiscal 
year 2017 for ``Motor Carrier Safety Grants''; of which $292,600,000 
shall be available for the motor carrier safety assistance program, 
$31,200,000 shall be available for the commercial driver's license 
program implementation program, $42,200,000 shall be available for the 
high priority activities program, and $1,000,000 shall be available for 
the commercial motor vehicle operator grant program.

 administrative provisions--federal motor carrier safety administration

    Sec. 130.  Funds appropriated or limited in this Act shall be 
subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in section 350 of Public 
Law 107-87 and section 6901 of Public Law 110-28.
    Sec. 131.  Section 133 of division L, title I of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2016, Public Law 114-113, is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act or any other Act may be used to implement, administer, or 
enforce the requirement for two off-duty periods from 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 
a.m. under subsection 395.3(c) or the restriction on use of more than 
one restart during a 168-hour period under subsection 395.3(d) of title 
49, Code of Federal Regulations, and such provisions shall have no 
force or effect as of the date of submission of the final report issued 
by the Secretary of Transportation, as required by section 133 of 
division K of Public Law 113-235, unless the Secretary and the 
Inspector General of the Department of Transportation each review and 
determine that the final report--
            ``(1) meets the statutory requirements set forth in such 
        section; and
            ``(2) establishes that commercial motor vehicle drivers who 
        operated under the restart provisions in operational effect 
        between July 1, 2013, and the day before the date of enactment 
        of such Public Law demonstrated statistically significant 
        improvement in all outcomes related to safety, operator 
        fatigue, driver health and longevity, and work schedules, in 
        comparison to commercial motor vehicle drivers who operated 
        under the restart provisions in operational effect on June 30, 
        2013.
    ``(b) If the Secretary and Inspector General do not each make the 
determination required by subsection (a), the 34-hour restart rule in 
operational effect on June 30, 2013, shall be restored to full force 
and effect on the date the Secretary submits the final report to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, and funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act or any other Act shall be 
available to implement, administer, or enforce such rule.
    ``(c) If the 34-hour restart rule in operational effect on June 30, 
2013, is restored to full force and effect pursuant to subsection (b), 
a driver who uses that restart rule may not drive after being on duty 
more than 73 hours in any period of 7 consecutive days, where the 7-day 
measurement period moves forward 1 day at midnight each day.''.

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                        operations and research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
with respect to traffic and highway safety authorized under chapter 301 
and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, 
$160,075,000, of which $20,000,000 shall remain available through 
September 30, 2018.

                        operations and research

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 403, and chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code, 
$145,900,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
Mass Transit Account) and to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the 
planning or execution of programs the total obligations for which, in 
fiscal year 2017, are in excess of $145,900,000, of which $140,700,000 
shall be for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403 and $5,200,000 
shall be for the National Driver Register authorized under chapter 303 
of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That within the 
$145,900,000 obligation limitation for operations and research, 
$20,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018, and shall 
be in addition to the amount of any limitation imposed on obligations 
for future years.

                     highway traffic safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 402, 404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act, to remain available until 
expended, $585,372,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account):  Provided, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2017, are in 
excess of $585,372,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 
404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface 
Transportation Act, of which $252,300,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety 
Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 402; $277,500,000 shall be for ``National 
Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 405; $29,500,000 shall be 
for ``High Visibility Enforcement Program'' under 23 U.S.C. 404; 
$26,072,000 shall be for ``Administrative Expenses'' under section 
4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act:  
Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used for 
construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office 
furnishings and fixtures for State, local or private buildings or 
structures:  Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds 
made available for ``National Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 
U.S.C. 405 for ``Impaired Driving Countermeasures'' (as described in 
subsection (d) of that section) shall be available for technical 
assistance to the States:  Provided further, That with respect to the 
``Transfers'' provision under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(1)(8), any amounts 
transferred to increase the amounts made available under section 402 
shall include the obligation authority for such amounts:  Provided 
further, That the Administrator shall notify the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations of any exercise of the authority granted 
under the previous proviso or under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(1)(8) within 5 
days.

      administrative provisions--national highway traffic safety 
                             administration

    Sec. 140.  An additional $130,000 shall be made available to the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, out of the amount 
limited for section 402 of title 23, United States Code, to pay for 
travel and related expenses for State management reviews and to pay for 
core competency development training and related expenses for highway 
safety staff.
    Sec. 141.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration set in this Act shall 
not apply to obligations for which obligation authority was made 
available in previous public laws but only to the extent that the 
obligation authority has not lapsed or been used.
    Sec. 142.  Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue a final rule 
requiring the use of speed limiting devices on trucks with a gross 
vehicle weight rating in excess of 26,000 pounds.

                    Federal Railroad Administration

                         safety and operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $208,500,000, of which $15,900,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                   railroad research and development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$40,100,000, to remain available until expended.

       railroad rehabilitation and improvement financing program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue direct loans 
and loan guarantees pursuant to sections 501 through 504 of the 
Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 
94-210), as amended, such authority to exist as long as any such direct 
loan or loan guarantee is outstanding.

    consolidated rail infrastructure and safety improvements grants

    For necessary expenses related to Consolidated Rail Infrastructure 
and Safety Improvements Grants as authorized by section 24407 of title 
49, United States Code, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which up to $25,000,000 shall be available to carry out 
section 24407(c)(1) of title 49, United States Code; and not less than 
$25,000,000 shall be available to carry out paragraphs (2), (5), (6), 
(7) and (10) of section 24407(c) of such title:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may withhold up to one percent of the amount provided under 
this heading for the costs of project management oversight of grants 
carried out under section 24407 of title 49, United States Code:  
Provided further, That such funds shall only be used for grants related 
to railroad safety.

       federal-state partnership for state of good repair grants

    For necessary expenses related to Federal-State Partnership for 
State of Good Repair Grants as authorized by section 24911 of title 49, 
United States Code, $20,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That the Secretary may withhold up to one percent of the 
amount provided under this heading for the costs of project management 
oversight of grants carried out under section 24911 of title 49, United 
States Code.

                   restoration and enhancement grants

    For necessary expenses related to grants, $15,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $5,000,000 shall be available to 
carry out section 24408 of title 49, United States Code; and 
$10,000,000 shall be available for capital grants for the restoration 
or initiation of intercity passenger service in an amount not to exceed 
50 percent of the total project cost:  Provided, That the Secretary may 
withhold up to one percent of the funds provided under this heading to 
fund the costs of project management and oversight.

     northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger 
                              corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities associated with 
the Northeast Corridor as authorized by section 11101(a) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act (division A of Public Law 114-94), 
$345,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 percent of the funds provided 
under both this heading and the National Network Grants to the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation heading to fund the costs of project 
management and oversight of activities authorized by section 11101(c) 
of division A of Public Law 114-94:  Provided further, That in addition 
to the project management oversight funds authorized under section 
11101(c) of division A of Public Law 114-94, the Secretary may retain 
up to an additional $5,000,000 of the funds provided under this heading 
to fund expenses associated with the Northeast Corridor Commission 
established under section 24905 of title 49, United States Code:  
Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this heading 
and the National Network Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation heading, not less than $50,000,000 shall be made available 
to bring Amtrak-served facilities and stations into compliance with the 
Americans with Disabilities Act.

 national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities associated with 
the National Network as authorized by section 11101(b) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act (division A of Public Law 114-94), 
$1,075,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may retain up to an additional $2,000,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading to fund expenses associated with the State-
Supported Route Committee established under 24712 of title 49, United 
States Code.

       administrative provisions--federal railroad administration

    Sec. 150.  None of the funds provided to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation may be used to fund any overtime costs in excess 
of $35,000 for any individual employee:  Provided, That the President 
of Amtrak may waive the cap set in the previous proviso for specific 
employees when the President of Amtrak determines such a cap poses a 
risk to the safety and operational efficiency of the system:  Provided 
further, That the President of Amtrak shall report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations each quarter within 60 days of such 
quarter of the calendar year on waivers granted to employees and 
amounts paid above the cap for each month within such quarter and 
delineate the reasons each waiver was granted:  Provided further, That 
the President of Amtrak shall report to the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations by May 15, 2017, a summary of all overtime payments 
incurred by the Corporation for 2016 and the three prior calendar 
years:  Provided further, That such summary shall include the total 
number of employees that received waivers and the total overtime 
payments the Corporation paid to those employees receiving waivers for 
each month for 2016 and for the three prior calendar years.
    Sec. 151.  Section 24408 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by--
            (1) Striking the words ``or enhancing'' in subsection (b) 
        and inserting in its place the words ``enhancing, or 
        supporting'';
            (2) Striking subparagraph (c)(3)(C);
            (3) Striking paragraph (d)(5); and
            (4) Striking subsection (e) and replacing with a new 
        subsection (e) that states ``Grants made under this section may 
        not exceed 80 percent of the projected net operating costs.''.

                     Federal Transit Administration

                        administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $110,665,000:  Provided, That none of the funds provided 
or limited in this Act may be used to create a permanent office of 
transit security under this heading:  Provided further, That upon 
submission to the Congress of the fiscal year 2018 President's budget, 
the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to Congress the annual 
report on New Starts, including proposed allocations for fiscal year 
2018.

                         transit formula grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the Federal Public 
Transportation Assistance Program in this account, and for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 
5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 
5340, as amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
and section 20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and sections 3006(b) and 
3028 of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
$10,800,000,000, to be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the 
Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That funds available for the implementation or execution of programs 
authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 
5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340, as amended by the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act, and section 20005(b) of Public 
Law 112-141, and sections 3006(b) and 3028 of the Fixing America's 
Surface Transportation Act, shall not exceed total obligations of 
$9,733,706,043 in fiscal year 2017:  Provided further, That the Federal 
share of the cost of activities carried out under section 5312 shall 
not exceed 80 percent, except that if there is substantial public 
interest or benefit, the Secretary may approve a greater Federal share.

                       capital investment grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5309 and section 
3005(b) of the FAST Act, $2,338,063,000, to remain available until 
expended.

      grants to the washington metropolitan area transit authority

    For grants to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority as 
authorized under section 601 of division B of Public Law 110-432, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation shall approve grants for capital and 
preventive maintenance expenditures for the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority only after receiving and reviewing a request for 
each specific project:  Provided further, That prior to approving such 
grants, the Secretary shall certify that the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority is making progress to improve its safety 
management system in response to the Federal Transit Administration's 
2015 safety management inspection:  Provided further, That prior to 
approving such grants, the Secretary shall certify that the Washington 
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority is making progress toward full 
implementation of the corrective actions identified in the 2014 
Financial Management Oversight Review Report:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall determine that the Washington Metropolitan Area 
Transit Authority has placed the highest priority on those investments 
that will improve the safety of the system before approving such 
grants:  Provided further, That the Secretary, in order to ensure 
safety throughout the rail system, may waive the requirements of 
section 601(e)(1) of division B of Public Law 110-432 (112 Stat. 4968).

       administrative provisions--federal transit administration

                         (including rescission)

    Sec. 160.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 
49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to any 
other authority previously made available for obligation.
    Sec. 161.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated or limited by this Act under the heading ``Fixed Guideway 
Capital Investment'' of the Federal Transit Administration for projects 
specified in this Act or identified in reports accompanying this Act 
not obligated by September 30, 2021, and other recoveries, shall be 
directed to projects eligible to use the funds for the purposes for 
which they were originally provided.
    Sec. 162.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 2016, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure, 
may be transferred to and administered under the most recent 
appropriation heading for any such section.
    Sec. 163.  Section 5303(r)(2)(C) of title 49, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and 25 square miles of land area'' after 
        ``145,000''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and 12 square miles of land area'' after 
        ``65,000''.
    Sec. 164.  Any unobligated amounts made available for fiscal year 
2012 or prior fiscal years to carry out the discretionary job access 
and reverse commute program under section 3037 of the transportation 
equity act for the 21st century are hereby rescinded:  Provided, That 
such amounts are made available for projects eligible under 49 U.S.C. 
5309(q).
    Sec. 165.  Section 5307(a) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Special rule.--The Secretary may make grants under 
        this section to finance the operating cost of equipment and 
        facilities for use in public transportation, excluding rail 
        fixed guideway, in an urbanized area with a population of not 
        fewer than 200,000 individuals, as determined by the Bureau of 
        the Census--
                    ``(A) for public transportation systems that--
                            ``(i) operate 75 or fewer buses in fixed 
                        route service or demand response service, 
                        excluding ADA complementary paratransit 
                        service, during peak service hours, in an 
                        amount not to exceed 75 percent of the share of 
                        the apportionment which is attributable to such 
                        systems within the urbanized area, as measured 
                        by vehicle revenue hours; or
                            ``(ii) operate a minimum of 76 buses and a 
                        maximum of 100 buses in fixed route service or 
                        demand response service, excluding ADA 
                        complementary paratransit service, during peak 
                        service hours, in an amount not to exceed 50 
                        percent of the share of the apportionment which 
                        is attributable to such systems within the 
                        urbanized area, as measured by vehicle revenue 
                        hours; or
                    ``(B) subject to paragraph (3), for public 
                transportation systems that--
                            ``(i) operate 75 or fewer buses in fixed 
                        route service or demand response service, 
                        excluding ADA complementary paratransit 
                        service, during peak service hours, in an 
                        amount not to exceed 75 percent of the share of 
                        the apportionment allocated to such systems 
                        within the urbanized area, as determined by the 
                        local planning process and included in the 
                        designated recipient's final program of 
                        projects prepared under subsection (b); or
                            ``(ii) operate a minimum of 76 buses and a 
                        maximum of 100 buses in fixed route service or 
                        demand response service, excluding ADA 
                        complementary paratransit service during peak 
                        service hours, in an amount not to exceed 50 
                        percent of the share of the apportionment 
                        allocated to such systems within the urbanized 
                        area, as determined by the local planning 
                        process and included in the designated 
                        recipient's final program of projects prepared 
                        under subsection (b).
            ``(3) Limitation.--The amount available to a public 
        transportation system under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) 
        shall be not more than 10 percent greater than the amount that 
        would otherwise be available to the system under subparagraph 
        (A) of that paragraph.''.

             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       operations and maintenance

                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses to conduct the operations, maintenance, and 
capital asset renewal activities of those portions of the St. Lawrence 
Seaway owned, operated, and maintained by the Saint Lawrence Seaway 
Development Corporation, $36,028,000, to be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99-662.

                        Maritime Administration

                       maritime security program

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the United 
States, $275,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That the Maritime Administration may make a reduction in payment pro 
rata in the event sufficient funds have not been appropriated to pay 
the full annual payment authorized for the Maritime Security Fleet 
pursuant to section 53106 of title 46:  Provided further, That the 
Maritime Administration shall allocate the funds across 60 ships.

                        operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $175,160,000, of which $22,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for maintenance and repair of training ships 
at State Maritime Academies, and of which $6,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for National Security Multi-Mission Vessel 
Program for State Maritime Academies and National Security, and of 
which $2,400,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2018, for 
the Student Incentive Program at State Maritime Academies, and of which 
$1,200,000 shall remain available until expended for training ship fuel 
assistance payments, and of which $18,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended for facilities maintenance and repair, equipment, and 
capital improvements at the United States Merchant Marine Academy, and 
of which $3,000,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2018, 
for Maritime Environment and Technology Assistance grants, contracts, 
and cooperative agreement, and of which $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for the Short Sea Transportation Program 
(America's Marine Highways) to make grants for the purposes provided in 
title 46 sections 55601(b)(1) and 55601(b)(3):  Provided further, That 
not later than January 12, 2017, the Administrator of the Maritime 
Administration shall transmit to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations the annual report on sexual assault and sexual 
harassment at the United States Merchant Marine Academy as required 
pursuant to section 3507 of Public Law 110-417.

                     assistance to small shipyards

    To make grants to qualified shipyards as authorized under section 
54101 of title 46, United States Code, as amended by Public Law 113-
281, $10,000,000 to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
the Secretary shall issue the Notice of Funding Availability no later 
than 15 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That from 
applications submitted under the previous proviso, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall make grants no later than 120 days after enactment 
of this Act in such amounts as the Secretary determines:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed 2 percent of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available for necessary costs of grant 
administration.

                             ship disposal

    For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete vessels 
in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Administration, 
$20,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which $8,000,000 
shall be for the decommissioning of the Nuclear Ship Savannah.

          maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized, $5,000,000, of 
which $2,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
amended:  Provided further, That not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be 
available for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
program, which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for ``Operations and Training'', Maritime 
Administration.

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Sec. 170.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, in 
addition to any existing authority, the Maritime Administration is 
authorized to furnish utilities and services and make necessary repairs 
in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy involving 
Government property under control of the Maritime Administration:  
Provided, That payments received therefor shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof and shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That rental payments under any such 
lease, contract, or occupancy for items other than such utilities, 
services, or repairs shall be covered into the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts.

         Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

                          operational expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operational expenses of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration, $23,207,000:  Provided, That no later 
than June 30, 2016, the Secretary of Transportation shall initiate a 
rulemaking to expand the applicability of comprehensive oil spill 
response plans, and shall issue a final rule no later than December 18, 
2016:  Provided further, That $1,500,000 shall be transferred to 
``Pipeline Safety'' in order to fund ``Pipeline Safety Information 
Grants to Communities'' as authorized under section 60130 of title 49, 
United States Code.

                       hazardous materials safety

    For expenses necessary to discharge the hazardous materials safety 
functions of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration, $57,619,000, of which $7,570,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That up to $800,000 in fees 
collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited in the general 
fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts:  Provided further, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation, to be available until 
expended, funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other 
public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training, for reports publication and dissemination, and for travel 
expenses incurred in performance of hazardous materials exemptions and 
approvals functions.

                            pipeline safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the 
pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$149,959,000, of which $20,288,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 
2019; and of which $129,671,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline 
Safety Fund, of which $59,835,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided, That not less than $1,058,000 of the 
funds provided under this heading shall be for the One-Call state grant 
program.

                     emergency preparedness grants

                     (emergency preparedness fund)

    Notwithstanding the fiscal year limitation specified in 49 U.S.C. 
5116, not more than $28,318,000 shall be made available for obligation 
in fiscal year 2017 from amounts made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), 
and 5128(b) and (c):  Provided further, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 
5116(h)(4), not more than 4 percent of the amounts made available from 
this account shall be available to pay administrative costs:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), 
5128(b), or 5128(c) shall be made available for obligation by 
individuals other than the Secretary of Transportation, or his or her 
designee:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5128(b) and 
(c) and the current year obligation limitation, prior year recoveries 
recognized in the current year shall be available to develop a 
hazardous materials response training curriculum for emergency 
responders, including response activities for the transportation of 
crude oil, ethanol and other flammable liquids by rail, consistent with 
National Fire Protection Association standards, and to make such 
training available through an electronic format:  Provided further, 
That the prior year recoveries made available under this heading shall 
also be available to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5116(a)(1)(C) and 5116(i).

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General to 
carry out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $93,550,000:  Provided, That the Inspector General shall have 
all necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department of Transportation.

            General Provisions--Department of Transportation

    Sec. 180.  During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations to the Department of Transportation shall be available 
for maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor 
vehicles operating in foreign countries on official department 
business; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 181.  Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department 
of Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 182.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 110 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation:  Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on temporary 
detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 183. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this Act 
shall disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of motor vehicles in connection 
with a motor vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as 
provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not 
withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a State is in 
noncompliance with this provision.
    Sec. 184.  Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration and 
Federal Railroad Administration from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training may be credited respectively to the Federal Highway 
Administration's ``Federal-Aid Highways'' account and to the Federal 
Railroad Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except for 
State rail safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 
U.S.C. 20105.
    Sec. 185.  None of the funds in this Act to the Department of 
Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan guarantee, line of 
credit, or grant unless the Secretary of Transportation notifies the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full 
business days before any project competitively selected to receive a 
discretionary grant award, any discretionary grant award, letter of 
intent, loan commitment, loan guarantee commitment, line of credit 
commitment, or full funding grant agreement.
    Sec. 186.  Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and 
other funds received by the Department of Transportation from travel 
management centers, charge card programs, the subleasing of building 
space, and miscellaneous sources are to be credited to appropriations 
of the Department of Transportation and allocated to elements of the 
Department of Transportation using fair and equitable criteria and such 
funds shall be available until expended.
    Sec. 187.  Amounts made available in this or any other Act that the 
Secretary determines represent improper payments by the Department of 
Transportation to a third-party contractor under a financial assistance 
award, which are recovered pursuant to law, shall be available--
            (1) to reimburse the actual expenses incurred by the 
        Department of Transportation in recovering improper payments; 
        and
            (2) to pay contractors for services provided in recovering 
        improper payments or contractor support in the implementation 
        of the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002:  Provided, 
        That amounts in excess of that required for paragraphs (1) and 
        (2)--
                    (A) shall be credited to and merged with the 
                appropriation from which the improper payments were 
                made, and shall be available for the purposes and 
                period for which such appropriations are available:  
                Provided further, That where specific project or 
                accounting information associated with the improper 
                payment or payments is not readily available, the 
                Secretary may credit an appropriate account, which 
                shall be available for the purposes and period 
                associated with the account so credited; or
                    (B) if no such appropriation remains available, 
                shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous 
                receipts:  Provided further, That prior to the transfer 
                of any such recovery to an appropriations account, the 
                Secretary shall notify the House and Senate Committees 
                on Appropriations of the amount and reasons for such 
                transfer:  Provided further, That for purposes of this 
                section, the term ``improper payments'' has the same 
                meaning as that provided in section 2(d)(2) of Public 
                Law 107-300.
    Sec. 188.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if any funds 
provided in or limited by this Act are subject to a reprogramming 
action that requires notice to be provided to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, transmission of said reprogramming notice 
shall be provided solely to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, and said reprogramming action shall be approved or 
denied solely by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation may provide notice to 
other congressional committees of the action of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations on such reprogramming but not sooner than 
30 days following the date on which the reprogramming action has been 
approved or denied by the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 189.  Funds appropriated in this Act to the modal 
administrations may be obligated for the Office of the Secretary for 
the costs related to assessments or reimbursable agreements only when 
such amounts are for the costs of goods and services that are purchased 
to provide a direct benefit to the applicable modal administration or 
administrations.
    Sec. 190.  The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to carry 
out a program that establishes uniform standards for developing and 
supporting agency transit pass and transit benefits authorized under 
section 7905 of title 5, United States Code, including distribution of 
transit benefits by various paper and electronic media.
    Sec. 191.  The Department of Transportation may use funds provided 
by this Act, or any other Act, to assist a contract under title 49 
U.S.C. or title 23 U.S.C. utilizing geographic, economic, or any other 
hiring preference not otherwise authorized by law, except for such 
preferences authorized in this Act, or to amend a rule, regulation, 
policy or other measure that forbids a recipient of a Federal Highway 
Administration or Federal Transit Administration grant from imposing 
such hiring preference on a contract or construction project with which 
the Department of Transportation is assisting, only if the grant 
recipient certifies the following:
            (1) that except with respect to apprentices or trainees, a 
        pool of readily available but unemployed individuals possessing 
        the knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the work that the 
        contract requires resides in the jurisdiction;
            (2) that the grant recipient will include appropriate 
        provisions in its bid document ensuring that the contractor 
        does not displace any of its existing employees in order to 
        satisfy such hiring preference; and
            (3) that any increase in the cost of labor, training, or 
        delays resulting from the use of such hiring preference does 
        not delay or displace any transportation project in the 
        applicable Statewide Transportation Improvement Program or 
        Transportation Improvement Program.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation 
Appropriations Act, 2017''.

                                TITLE II

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                     Management and Administration

                           executive offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Executive Offices, which 
shall be comprised of the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, 
Adjudicatory Services, Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, 
Public Affairs, Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, the 
Departmental Enforcement Center, and the Center for Faith-Based and 
Neighborhood Partnerships, $30,608,000:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$25,000 of the amount made available under this heading shall be 
available to the Secretary for official reception and representation 
expenses as the Secretary may determine.

                     administrative support offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Administrative Support 
Offices, $503,852,000, of which $53,451,000 shall be available for the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer; $79,053,000 shall be available 
for the Office of the General Counsel; $202,823,000 shall be available 
for the Office of Administration; $41,641,000 shall be available for 
the Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer; $52,568,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Field Policy and Management; $19,130,000 
shall be available for the Office of the Chief Procurement Officer; 
$3,891,000 shall be available for the Office of Departmental Equal 
Employment Opportunity; $5,147,000 shall be available for the Office of 
Strategic Planning and Management; and $46,148,000 shall be available 
for the Office of the Chief Information Officer:  Provided, That funds 
provided under this heading may be used for necessary administrative 
and non-administrative expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development, not otherwise provided for, including purchase of 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds appropriated under this heading may be used for 
advertising and promotional activities that directly support program 
activities funded in this title:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall provide the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
quarterly written notification regarding the status of pending 
congressional reports:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
provide in electronic form all signed reports required by Congress.

                  Program Office Salaries and Expenses

                       public and indian housing

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Public and 
Indian Housing, $220,500,000.

                   community planning and development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Community 
Planning and Development, $110,000,000.

                                housing

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Housing, 
$393,000,000.

                    policy development and research

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Policy 
Development and Research, $24,500,000.

                   fair housing and equal opportunity

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Fair Housing 
and Equal Opportunity, $74,235,000.

            office of lead hazard control and healthy homes

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Lead Hazard 
Control and Healthy Homes, $8,075,000.

                          Working Capital Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the working capital fund for the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (referred to in this paragraph as the ``Fund''), 
pursuant, in part, to section 7(f) of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(f)), amounts transferred to the 
Fund under this heading shall be available for Federal shared services 
used by offices and agencies of the Department, and for such portion of 
any office or agency's printing, records management, space renovation, 
furniture, or supply services as the Secretary determines shall be 
derived from centralized sources made available by the Department to 
all offices and agencies and funded through the Fund:  Provided, That 
of the amounts made available in this title for salaries and expenses 
under the headings ``Executive Offices'', ``Administrative Support 
Offices'', ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'', and ``Government 
National Mortgage Association'', the Secretary shall transfer to the 
Fund such amounts, to remain available until expended, as are necessary 
to fund services, specified in the first proviso, for which the 
appropriation would otherwise have been available, and may transfer not 
to exceed an additional $10,000,000, in aggregate, from all such 
appropriations, to be merged with the Fund and to remain available 
until expended for use for any office or agency:  Provided further, 
That amounts in the Fund shall be the only amounts available to each 
office or agency of the Department for the services, or portion of 
services, specified in the first proviso:  Provided further, That with 
respect to the Fund, the authorities and conditions under this heading 
shall supplement the authorities and conditions provided under section 
7(f).

                       Public and Indian Housing

                     tenant-based rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of tenant-based 
rental assistance authorized under the United States Housing Act of 
1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act'' herein), not 
otherwise provided for, $16,431,696,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available on October 1, 2016 (in addition to the 
$4,000,000,000 previously appropriated under this heading that shall be 
available on October 1, 2016), and $4,000,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be available on October 1, 2017:  Provided, That 
the amounts made available under this heading are provided as follows:
            (1) $18,355,000,000 shall be available for renewals of 
        expiring section 8 tenant-based annual contributions contracts 
        (including renewals of enhanced vouchers under any provision of 
        law authorizing such assistance under section 8(t) of the Act) 
        and including renewal of other special purpose incremental 
        vouchers:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law, from amounts provided under this paragraph and any 
        carryover, the Secretary for the calendar year 2017 funding 
        cycle shall provide renewal funding for each public housing 
        agency based on validated voucher management system (VMS) 
        leasing and cost data for the prior calendar year and by 
        applying an inflation factor as established by the Secretary, 
        by notice published in the Federal Register, and by making any 
        necessary adjustments for the costs associated with the first-
        time renewal of vouchers under this paragraph including tenant 
        protection, HOPE VI, and Choice Neighborhoods vouchers:  
        Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
        paragraph may be used to fund a total number of unit months 
        under lease which exceeds a public housing agency's authorized 
        level of units under contract, except for public housing 
        agencies participating in the MTW demonstration, which are 
        instead governed by the terms and conditions of their MTW 
        agreements:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the 
        extent necessary to stay within the amount specified under this 
        paragraph (except as otherwise modified under this paragraph), 
        prorate each public housing agency's allocation otherwise 
        established pursuant to this paragraph:  Provided further, That 
        except as provided in the following provisos, the entire amount 
        specified under this paragraph (except as otherwise modified 
        under this paragraph) shall be obligated to the public housing 
        agencies based on the allocation and pro rata method described 
        above, and the Secretary shall notify public housing agencies 
        of their annual budget by the latter of 60 days after enactment 
        of this Act or March 1, 2017:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary may extend the notification period with the prior 
        written approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations:  Provided further, That public housing agencies 
        participating in the MTW demonstration shall be funded pursuant 
        to their MTW agreements and shall be subject to the same pro 
        rata adjustments under the previous provisos:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may offset public housing agencies' 
        calendar year 2017 allocations based on the excess amounts of 
        public housing agencies' net restricted assets accounts, 
        including HUD held programmatic reserves (in accordance with 
        VMS data in calendar year 2016 that is verifiable and 
        complete), as determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, 
        That public housing agencies participating in the MTW 
        demonstration shall also be subject to the offset, as 
        determined by the Secretary, excluding amounts subject to the 
        single fund budget authority provisions of their MTW 
        agreements, from the agencies' calendar year 2017 MTW funding 
        allocation:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall use any 
        offset referred to in the previous two provisos throughout the 
        calendar year to prevent the termination of rental assistance 
        for families as the result of insufficient funding, as 
        determined by the Secretary, and to avoid or reduce the 
        proration of renewal funding allocations:  Provided further, 
        That up to $75,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for 
        adjustments in the allocations for public housing agencies, 
        after application for an adjustment by a public housing agency 
        that experienced a significant increase, as determined by the 
        Secretary, in renewal costs of vouchers resulting from 
        unforeseen circumstances or from portability under section 8(r) 
        of the Act; (2) for vouchers that were not in use during the 
        previous 12-month period in order to be available to meet a 
        commitment pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of the Act; (3) for 
        adjustments for costs associated with HUD-Veterans Affairs 
        Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) vouchers; and (4) for public 
        housing agencies that despite taking reasonable cost savings 
        measures, as determined by the Secretary, would otherwise be 
        required to terminate rental assistance for families as a 
        result of insufficient funding:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary shall allocate amounts under the previous proviso 
        based on need, as determined by the Secretary;
            (2) $110,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental assistance 
        for relocation and replacement of housing units that are 
        demolished or disposed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act, 
        conversion of section 23 projects to assistance under section 
        8, the family unification program under section 8(x) of the 
        Act, relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts to 
        combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to a 
        request from a law enforcement or prosecution agency, enhanced 
        vouchers under any provision of law authorizing such assistance 
        under section 8(t) of the Act, HOPE VI and Choice Neighborhood 
        vouchers, mandatory and voluntary conversions, and tenant 
        protection assistance including replacement and relocation 
        assistance or for project-based assistance to prevent the 
        displacement of unassisted elderly tenants currently residing 
        in section 202 properties financed between 1959 and 1974 that 
        are refinanced pursuant to Public Law 106-569, as amended, or 
        under the authority as provided under this Act:  Provided, That 
        when a public housing development is submitted for demolition 
        or disposition under section 18 of the Act, the Secretary may 
        provide section 8 rental assistance when the units pose an 
        imminent health and safety risk to residents:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may provide section 8 rental 
        assistance from amounts made available under this paragraph for 
        units assisted under a project-based subsidy contract funded 
        under the ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'' heading under 
        this title where the owner has received a Notice of Default and 
        the units pose an imminent health and safety risk to residents: 
         Provided further, That to the extent that the Secretary 
        determines that such units are not feasible for continued 
        rental assistance payments or transfer of the subsidy contract 
        associated with such units to another project or projects and 
        owner or owners, any remaining amounts associated with such 
        units under such contract shall be recaptured and used to 
        reimburse amounts used under this paragraph for rental 
        assistance under the preceding proviso:  Provided further, That 
        the Secretary may only provide replacement vouchers for units 
        that were occupied within the previous 24 months that cease to 
        be available as assisted housing, subject only to the 
        availability of funds:  Provided further, That any tenant 
        protection voucher made available from amounts under this 
        paragraph shall not be reissued by any public housing agency, 
        except the replacement vouchers as defined by the Secretary by 
        notice, when the initial family that received any such voucher 
        no longer receives such voucher, and the authority for any 
        public housing agency to issue any such voucher shall cease to 
        exist;
            (3) $1,768,696,000 shall be for administrative and other 
        expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
        section 8 tenant-based rental assistance program, of which up 
        to $10,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary to allocate 
        to public housing agencies that need additional funds to 
        administer their section 8 programs, including fees associated 
        with section 8 tenant protection rental assistance, the 
        administration of disaster related vouchers, Veterans Affairs 
        Supportive Housing vouchers, and other special purpose 
        incremental vouchers:  Provided, That no less than 
        $1,758,696,000 of the amount provided in this paragraph shall 
        be allocated to public housing agencies for the calendar year 
        2017 funding cycle based on section 8(q) of the Act (and 
        related Appropriation Act provisions) as in effect immediately 
        before the enactment of the Quality Housing and Work 
        Responsibility Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-276):  Provided 
        further, That if the amounts made available under this 
        paragraph are insufficient to pay the amounts determined under 
        the previous proviso, the Secretary may decrease the amounts 
        allocated to agencies by a uniform percentage applicable to all 
        agencies receiving funding under this paragraph or may, to the 
        extent necessary to provide full payment of amounts determined 
        under the previous proviso, utilize unobligated balances, 
        including recaptures and carryovers, remaining from funds 
        appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
        under this heading from prior fiscal years, excluding special 
        purpose vouchers, notwithstanding the purposes for which such 
        amounts were appropriated:  Provided further, That all public 
        housing agencies participating in the MTW demonstration shall 
        be funded pursuant to their MTW agreements, and shall be 
        subject to the same uniform percentage decrease as under the 
        previous proviso:  Provided further, That amounts provided 
        under this paragraph shall be only for activities related to 
        the provision of tenant-based rental assistance authorized 
        under section 8, including related development activities;
            (4) $110,000,000 for the renewal of tenant-based assistance 
        contracts under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including necessary 
        administrative expenses:  Provided, That administrative and 
        other expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
        special purpose vouchers in this paragraph shall be funded 
        under the same terms and be subject to the same pro rata 
        reduction as the percent decrease for administrative and other 
        expenses to public housing agencies under paragraph (3) of this 
        heading;
            (5) $7,000,000 shall be for rental assistance and 
        associated administrative fees for Tribal HUD-VA Supportive 
        Housing to serve Native American veterans that are homeless or 
        at-risk of homelessness living on or near a reservation or 
        other Indian areas:  Provided, That such amount shall be made 
        available for renewal grants to the recipients that received 
        assistance under the rental assistance and supportive housing 
        demonstration program for Native American veterans authorized 
        under the heading ``Tenant-Based Rental Assistance'' in title 
        II of division K of the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
        Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235, 128 Stat. 2733):  
        Provided further, That the Secretary shall be authorized to 
        specify criteria for renewal grants, including data on the 
        utilization of assistance reported by grant recipients under 
        the demonstration program:  Provided further, That any amounts 
        remaining after such renewal assistance is awarded may be 
        available for new grants to recipients eligible to receive 
        block grants under the Native American Housing Assistance and 
        Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. section 4101 et seq.) 
        for rental assistance and associated administrative fees for 
        Tribal HUD-VA Supportive Housing to serve Native American 
        veterans that are homeless or at-risk of homelessness living on 
        or near a reservation or other Indian areas:  Provided further, 
        That funds shall be awarded based on need and administrative 
        capacity established by the Secretary in a Notice published in 
        the Federal Register after coordination with the Secretary of 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs:  Provided further, That 
        renewal grants and new grants under this paragraph shall be 
        administered by block grant recipients in accordance with 
        program requirements under the Native American Housing 
        Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996:  Provided 
        further, That assistance under this paragraph shall be modeled 
        after, with necessary and appropriate adjustments for Native 
        American grant recipients and veterans, the rental assistance 
        and supportive housing program known as HUD-VASH program, 
        including administration in conjunction with the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs and overall implementation of section 8(o)(19) 
        of the United States Housing Act of 1937:  Provided further, 
        That the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may waive, 
        or specify alternative requirements for any provision of any 
        statute or regulation that the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development administers in connection with the use of funds 
        made available under this paragraph (except for requirements 
        related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor stands, and 
        the environment), upon a finding by the Secretary that any such 
        waivers or alternative requirements are necessary for the 
        effective delivery and administration of such assistance:  
        Provided further, That grant recipients shall report to the 
        Secretary on utilization of such rental assistance and other 
        program data, as prescribed by the Secretary;
            (6) $50,000,000 for incremental rental voucher assistance 
        for use through a supported housing program administered in 
        conjunction with the Department of Veterans Affairs as 
        authorized under section 8(o)(19) of the United States Housing 
        Act of 1937:  Provided, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development shall make such funding available, notwithstanding 
        section 204 (competition provision) of this title, to public 
        housing agencies that partner with eligible VA Medical Centers 
        or other entities as designated by the Secretary of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs, based on geographical need for 
        such assistance as identified by the Secretary of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs, public housing agency 
        administrative performance, and other factors as specified by 
        the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in consultation 
        with the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs:  
        Provided further, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development may waive, or specify alternative requirements for 
        (in consultation with the Secretary of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs), any provision of any statute or regulation 
        that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development administers 
        in connection with the use of funds made available under this 
        paragraph (except for requirements related to fair housing, 
        nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon 
        a finding by the Secretary that any such waivers or alternative 
        requirements are necessary for the effective delivery and 
        administration of such voucher assistance:  Provided further, 
        That assistance made available under this paragraph shall 
        continue to remain available for homeless veterans upon turn-
        over;
            (7) $20,000,000 shall be made available for new incremental 
        voucher assistance through the family unification program as 
        authorized by section 8(x) of the Act:  Provided, That the 
        assistance made available under this paragraph shall continue 
        to remain available for family unification upon turnover:  
        Provided further, That for any public housing agency 
        administering voucher assistance appropriated in a prior Act 
        under the family unification program that determines that it no 
        longer has an identified need for such assistance upon 
        turnover, such agency shall notify the Secretary, and the 
        Secretary shall recapture such assistance from the agency and 
        reallocate it to any other public housing agency or agencies 
        based on need for voucher assistance in connection with such 
        program;
            (8) $11,000,000 shall be made available for the housing 
        choice voucher mobility demonstration authorized under section 
        243 of this title; and
            (9) the Secretary shall separately track all special 
        purpose vouchers funded under this heading.

                        housing certificate fund

                        (including rescissions)

    Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development under this heading, the heading ``Annual Contributions for 
Assisted Housing'' and the heading ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'', 
for fiscal year 2017 and prior years may be used for renewal of or 
amendments to section 8 project-based contracts and for performance-
based contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which 
such funds were appropriated:  Provided, That any obligated balances of 
contract authority from fiscal year 1974 and prior that have been 
terminated shall be rescinded:  Provided further, That amounts 
heretofore recaptured, or recaptured during the current fiscal year, 
from section 8 project-based contracts from source years fiscal year 
1975 through fiscal year 1987 are hereby rescinded, and an amount of 
additional new budget authority, equivalent to the amount rescinded is 
hereby appropriated, to remain available until expended, for the 
purposes set forth under this heading, in addition to amounts otherwise 
available.

                      public housing capital fund

    For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program to carry out capital 
and management activities for public housing agencies, as authorized 
under section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437g) (the ``Act'') $1,925,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2020:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law or regulation, during fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development may not delegate to any Department official other 
than the Deputy Secretary and the Assistant Secretary for Public and 
Indian Housing any authority under paragraph (2) of section 9(j) 
regarding the extension of the time periods under such section:  
Provided further, That for purposes of such section 9(j), the term 
``obligate'' means, with respect to amounts, that the amounts are 
subject to a binding agreement that will result in outlays, immediately 
or in the future:  Provided further, That up to $10,000,000 shall be to 
support ongoing public housing financial and physical assessment 
activities:  Provided further, That up to $1,000,000 shall be to 
support the costs of administrative and judicial receiverships:  
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
not to exceed $21,500,000 shall be available for the Secretary to make 
grants, notwithstanding section 204 of this Act, to public housing 
agencies for emergency capital needs including safety and security 
measures necessary to address crime and drug-related activity as well 
as needs resulting from unforeseen or unpreventable emergencies and 
natural disasters excluding Presidentially declared emergencies and 
natural disasters under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in fiscal year 2017:  
Provided further, That of the amount made available under the previous 
proviso, not less than $5,000,000 shall be for safety and security 
measures:  Provided further, That in addition to the amount in the 
previous proviso for such safety and security measures, any amounts 
that remain available, after all applications received on or before 
September 30, 2018, for emergency capital needs have been processed, 
shall be allocated to public housing agencies for such safety and 
security measures:  Provided further, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading $35,000,000 shall be for supportive services, 
service coordinator and congregate services as authorized by section 34 
of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-6) and the Native American Housing 
Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.): 
 Provided further, That of the total amount made available under this 
heading, $15,000,000 shall be for a Jobs-Plus initiative modeled after 
the Jobs-Plus demonstration:  Provided further, That the funding 
provided under the previous proviso shall provide competitive grants to 
partnerships between public housing authorities, local workforce 
investment boards established under section 117 of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998, and other agencies and organizations that 
provide support to help public housing residents obtain employment and 
increase earnings:  Provided further, That applicants must demonstrate 
the ability to provide services to residents, partner with workforce 
investment boards, and leverage service dollars:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary may allow public housing agencies to request 
exemptions from rent and income limitation requirements under sections 
3 and 6 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 as necessary to 
implement the Jobs-Plus program, on such terms and conditions as the 
Secretary may approve upon a finding by the Secretary that any such 
waivers or alternative requirements are necessary for the effective 
implementation of the Jobs-Plus initiative as a voluntary program for 
residents:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall publish by 
notice in the Federal Register any waivers or alternative requirements 
pursuant to the preceding proviso no later than 10 days before the 
effective date of such notice:  Provided further, That for funds 
provided under this heading, the limitation in section 9(g)(1) of the 
Act shall be 25 percent:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
waive the limitation in the previous proviso to allow public housing 
agencies to fund activities authorized under section 9(e)(1)(C) of the 
Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall notify public housing 
agencies requesting waivers under the previous proviso if the request 
is approved or denied within 14 days of submitting the request:  
Provided further, That from the funds made available under this 
heading, the Secretary shall provide bonus awards in fiscal year 2017 
to public housing agencies that are designated high performers:  
Provided further, That the Department shall notify public housing 
agencies of their formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of 
this Act:  Provided further, That of the total amount provided under 
this heading, $25,000,000 shall be available for competitive grants to 
public housing agencies to evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards 
in public housing by carrying out the activities of risk assessments, 
abatement, and interim controls (as those terms are defined in section 
1004 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 
(42 U.S.C. 4851b)):  Provided further, That for purposes of 
environmental review, a grant under the previous proviso shall be 
considered funds for projects or activities under title I of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) for purposes of 
section 26 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1437x) and shall be subject to the 
regulations implementing such section.

                     public housing operating fund

    For 2017 payments to public housing agencies for the operation and 
management of public housing, as authorized by section 9(e) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,675,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2018.

                    choice neighborhoods initiative

    For competitive grants under the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative 
(subject to section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise specified under this heading), for 
transformation, rehabilitation, and replacement housing needs of both 
public and HUD-assisted housing and to transform neighborhoods of 
poverty into functioning, sustainable mixed income neighborhoods with 
appropriate services, schools, public assets, transportation and access 
to jobs, $80,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019:  
Provided, That grant funds may be used for resident and community 
services, community development, and affordable housing needs in the 
community, and for conversion of vacant or foreclosed properties to 
affordable housing:  Provided further, That the use of funds made 
available under this heading shall not be deemed to be public housing 
notwithstanding section 3(b)(1) of such Act:  Provided further, That 
grantees shall commit to an additional period of affordability 
determined by the Secretary of not fewer than 20 years:  Provided 
further, That grantees shall provide a match in State, local, other 
Federal or private funds:  Provided further, That grantees may include 
local governments, tribal entities, public housing authorities, and 
nonprofits:  Provided further, That for-profit developers may apply 
jointly with a public entity:  Provided further, That for purposes of 
environmental review, a grantee shall be treated as a public housing 
agency under section 26 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437x), and grants under this heading shall be subject to the 
regulations issued by the Secretary to implement such section:  
Provided further, That of the amount provided, not less than 
$48,000,000 shall be awarded to public housing agencies:  Provided 
further, That such grantees shall create partnerships with other local 
organizations including assisted housing owners, service agencies, and 
resident organizations:  Provided further, That no more than $5,000,000 
of funds made available under this heading may be provided as grants to 
undertake comprehensive local planning with input from residents and 
the community:  Provided further, That unobligated balances, including 
recaptures, remaining from funds appropriated under the heading 
``Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing (HOPE VI)'' in 
fiscal year 2011 and prior fiscal years may be used for purposes under 
this heading, notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts were 
appropriated:  Provided further, That implementation grants awarded 
under this heading may only be awarded to grantees that have previously 
been awarded planning grants.

                        family self-sufficiency

    For the Family Self-Sufficiency program to support family self-
sufficiency coordinators under section 23 of the United States Housing 
Act of 1937, to promote the development of local strategies to 
coordinate the use of assistance under sections 8(o) and 9 of such Act 
with public and private resources, and enable eligible families to 
achieve economic independence and self-sufficiency, $75,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may, by Federal Register notice, waive or specify alternative 
requirements under sections b(3), b(4), b(5), or c(1) of section 23 of 
such Act in order to facilitate the operation of a unified self-
sufficiency program for individuals receiving assistance under 
different provisions of the Act, as determined by the Secretary:  
Provided further, That owners of a privately owned multifamily property 
with a section 8 contract may voluntarily make a Family Self-
Sufficiency program available to the assisted tenants of such property 
in accordance with procedures established by the Secretary:  Provided 
further, That such procedures established pursuant to the previous 
proviso shall permit participating tenants to accrue escrow funds in 
accordance with section 23(d)(2) and shall allow owners to use funding 
from residual receipt accounts to hire coordinators for their own 
Family Self-Sufficiency program.

                          indian block grants

    For activities and assistance authorized under title I of the 
Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 
(NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), title I of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 with respect to Indian tribes (42 
U.S.C. 5306(a)(1)), and related technical assistance, $714,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That the amounts 
made available under this heading are provided as follows:
            (1) $646,500,000 shall be available for the Indian Housing 
        Block Grant program, as authorized under title I of NAHASDA:  
        Provided, That, notwithstanding NAHASDA, to determine the 
        amount of the allocation under title I of such Act for each 
        Indian tribe, the Secretary shall apply the formula under 
        section 302 of such Act with the need component based on 
        single-race census data and with the need component based on 
        multi-race census data, and the amount of the allocation for 
        each Indian tribe shall be the greater of the two resulting 
        allocation amounts:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
        section 302(d) of NAHASDA, if on January 1, 2017, a recipient's 
        total amount of undisbursed block grant funds in the 
        Department's line of credit control system is greater than 
        three times the formula allocation it would otherwise receive 
        under the first proviso under this paragraph, the Secretary 
        shall adjust that recipient's formula allocation down by the 
        difference between its total amount of undisbursed block grant 
        funds in the Department's line of credit control system on 
        January 1, 2017, and three times the formula allocation it 
        would otherwise receive:  Provided further, That 
        notwithstanding the previous two provisos, no Indian tribe 
        shall receive an allocation amount greater than 10 percent of 
        the total amount made available under this paragraph:  Provided 
        further, That grant amounts not allocated to a recipient 
        pursuant to the previous two provisos shall be allocated under 
        the need component of the formula proportionately among all 
        other Indian tribes not subject to an adjustment under such 
        provisos:  Provided further, That the second and third provisos 
        shall not apply to any Indian tribe that would otherwise 
        receive a formula allocation of less than $8,000,000:  Provided 
        further, That to take effect, the four previous provisos do not 
        require issuance or amendment of any regulation, and shall not 
        be construed to confer hearing rights under any section of 
        NAHASDA or its implementing regulations:  Provided further, 
        That the Department will notify grantees of their formula 
        allocation within 60 days of the date of enactment of this Act;
            (2) $2,000,000 shall be made available for the cost of 
        guaranteed notes and other obligations, as authorized by title 
        VI of NAHASDA:  Provided, That such costs, including the costs 
        of modifying such notes and other obligations, shall be as 
        defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
        as amended:  Provided further, That these funds are available 
        to subsidize the total principal amount of any notes and other 
        obligations, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to 
        exceed $17,857,142 to remain available until September 30, 
        2021;
            (3) $60,000,000 shall be for grants to Indian tribes for 
        carrying out the Community Development Block Grant program as 
        authorized under title I of the Housing and Community 
        Development Act of 1974, notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of 
        such Act, of which, up to $4,000,000 may be used for 
        emergencies that constitute imminent threats to health and 
        safety notwithstanding any other provision of law (including 
        section 204 of this title) and, notwithstanding title I of that 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), eligible Indian tribes may use 
        funds made available under this paragraph for the construction 
        of housing for law enforcement, health care, educational, 
        technical, and other skilled workers:  Provided, That not to 
        exceed 20 percent of any grant made with funds appropriated 
        under this paragraph shall be expended for planning and 
        management development and administration; and
            (4) $5,500,000 shall be to support the inspection of Indian 
        housing units, contract expertise, training, and technical 
        assistance needs in Indian country related to funding provided 
        under this heading.

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
13a), $5,500,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such costs, including the costs of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total 
loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, up to 
$1,341,463,415, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That up to $750,000 of this amount may be for administrative contract 
expenses including management processes and systems to carry out the 
loan guarantee program:  Provided further, That an additional 
$1,000,000 shall be available until expended for such costs of 
guaranteed loans authorized under such section 184 issued to tribes and 
Indian housing authorities for the construction of rental housing for 
law enforcement, healthcare, educational, technical and other skilled 
workers:  Provided further, That the funds specified in the previous 
proviso are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of 
which is to be guaranteed, up to $243,902,439 to remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That the Secretary may specify any 
additional program requirements with respect to the previous two 
provisos through publication of a Mortgagee Letter or Notice.

                  native hawaiian housing block grant

    For the Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grant program, as authorized 
under title VIII of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), $5,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

                   Community Planning and Development

              housing opportunities for persons with aids

    For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 
program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
12901 et seq.), $335,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018, except that amounts allocated pursuant to section 854(c)(3) of 
such Act shall remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, 
That the Secretary shall renew all expiring contracts for permanent 
supportive housing that initially were funded under section 854(c)(3) 
of such Act from funds made available under this heading in fiscal year 
2010 and prior fiscal years that meet all program requirements before 
awarding funds for new contracts under such section:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 854(c)(1) of such Act or any implementing 
regulation, the Secretary shall allocate 90 percent of the funds by 
formula, of which 75 percent shall be among cities that are the most 
populous unit of general local government in a metropolitan statistical 
area with a population greater than 500,000 and have more than 2,000 
persons living with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or AIDS, and 
States with more than 2,000 persons living with HIV or AIDS outside of 
metropolitan statistical areas, as reported to and confirmed by the 
Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) as of 
December 31 of the most recent calendar year for which such data is 
available, and of which 25 percent shall be among such eligible States 
and cities that are the most populous unit of general local government 
in a metropolitan statistical area based on fair market rents and area 
poverty indexes, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, 
That a grantee's share shall not reflect a loss greater than 5 percent 
or a gain greater than 10 percent of the share of total available 
formula funds that the grantee received in the preceding fiscal year:  
Provided further, That any grantee that received a formula allocation 
in fiscal year 2016 shall continue to be eligible for formula 
allocation in this fiscal year:  Provided further, That the Department 
shall notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 days of 
enactment of this Act.

                       community development fund

    For assistance to units of State and local government, and to other 
entities, for economic and community development activities, and for 
other purposes, $3,000,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2019, unless otherwise specified:  Provided, That of the total amount 
provided, $3,000,000,000 is for carrying out the community development 
block grant program under title I of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974, as amended (``the Act'' herein) (42 U.S.C. 
5301 et seq.):  Provided further, That unless explicitly provided for 
under this heading, not to exceed 20 percent of any grant made with 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be expended for planning 
and management development and administration:  Provided further, That 
a metropolitan city, urban county, unit of general local government, or 
Indian tribe, or insular area that directly or indirectly receives 
funds under this heading may not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer all 
or any portion of such funds to another such entity in exchange for any 
other funds, credits or non-Federal considerations, but must use such 
funds for activities eligible under title I of the Act:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 105(e)(1) of the Act, no funds 
provided under this heading may be provided to a for-profit entity for 
an economic development project under section 105(a)(17) unless such 
project has been evaluated and selected in accordance with guidelines 
required under subparagraph (e)(2):  Provided further, That the 
Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 
days of enactment of this Act.

         community development loan guarantees program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
during fiscal year 2017, commitments to guarantee loans under section 
108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 
5308), any part of which is guaranteed, shall not exceed a total 
principal amount of $300,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate 
limitation on outstanding obligations guaranteed in subsection (k) of 
such section 108:  Provided, That the Secretary shall collect fees from 
borrowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of such section 108, to 
result in a credit subsidy cost of zero for guaranteeing such loans, 
and any such fees shall be collected in accordance with section 502(7) 
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME Investment Partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as 
amended, $950,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
Provided, That notwithstanding the amount made available under this 
heading, the threshold reduction requirements in sections 216(10) and 
217(b)(4) of such Act shall not apply to allocations of such amount:  
Provided further, That the requirements under provisos 2 through 6 
under this heading for fiscal year 2012 and such requirements 
applicable pursuant to the ``Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2013'', shall not apply to any project to which funds were committed on 
or after August 23, 2013, but such projects shall instead be governed 
by the Final Rule titled ``Home Investment Partnerships Program; 
Improving Performance and Accountability; Updating Property Standards'' 
which became effective on such date:  Provided further, That the 
Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 
days of enactment of this Act.

        self-help and assisted homeownership opportunity program

    For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program, 
as authorized under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program 
Extension Act of 1996, as amended, $50,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be made available to the Self-
Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program as authorized under 
section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996, as 
amended:  Provided further, That of the total amount provided under 
this heading, $35,000,000 shall be made available for the second, 
third, and fourth capacity building activities authorized under section 
4(a) of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 9816 note), of 
which not less than $5,000,000 shall be made available for rural 
capacity building activities:  Provided further, That of the total 
amount provided under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be made available 
for capacity building by national rural housing organizations with 
experience assessing national rural conditions and providing financing, 
training, technical assistance, information, and research to local 
nonprofits, local governments and Indian Tribes serving high need rural 
communities:  Provided further, That an additional $4,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for a program to rehabilitate 
and modify homes of disabled or low-income veterans as authorized under 
section 1079 of Public Law 113-291.

                       homeless assistance grants

    For the emergency solutions grants program as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, 
as amended; the continuum of care program as authorized under subtitle 
C of title IV of such Act; and the rural housing stability assistance 
program as authorized under subtitle D of title IV of such Act, 
$2,330,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019:  
Provided, That any rental assistance amounts that are recaptured under 
such continuum of care program shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That not less than $250,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for such emergency 
solutions grants program:  Provided further, That not less than 
$2,013,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for such continuum of care and rural housing stability 
assistance programs:  Provided further, That up to $7,000,000 of the 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for the 
national homeless data analysis project:  Provided further, That all 
funds awarded for supportive services under the continuum of care 
program and the rural housing stability assistance program shall be 
matched by not less than 25 percent in cash or in kind by each grantee: 
 Provided further, That for all match requirements applicable to funds 
made available under this heading for this fiscal year and prior years, 
a grantee may use (or could have used) as a source of match funds other 
funds administered by the Secretary and other Federal agencies unless 
there is (or was) a specific statutory prohibition on any such use of 
any such funds:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided 
under this heading shall be available to provide funding for new 
projects, except for projects created through reallocation, unless the 
Secretary determines that the continuum of care has demonstrated that 
projects are evaluated and ranked based on the degree to which they 
improve the continuum of care's system performance:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall prioritize funding under the continuum of care 
program to continuums of care that have demonstrated a capacity to 
reallocate funding from lower performing projects to higher performing 
projects:  Provided further, That any unobligated amounts remaining 
from funds appropriated under this heading in fiscal year 2012 and 
prior years for project-based rental assistance for rehabilitation 
projects with 10-year grant terms may be used for purposes under this 
heading, notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds were 
appropriated:  Provided further, That all balances for Shelter Plus 
Care renewals previously funded from the Shelter Plus Care Renewal 
account and transferred to this account shall be available, if 
recaptured, for continuum of care renewals in fiscal year 2017:  
Provided further, That the Department shall notify grantees of their 
formula allocation from amounts allocated (which may represent initial 
or final amounts allocated) for the emergency solutions grant program 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That up to 
$40,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be to 
implement projects to demonstrate how a comprehensive approach to 
serving homeless youth, age 24 and under, in up to 11 communities, 
including at least five rural communities, can dramatically reduce 
youth homelessness:  Provided further, That such projects shall be 
eligible for renewal under the continuum of care program subject to the 
same terms and conditions as other renewal applicants:  Provided 
further, That youth aged 24 and under seeking assistance under this 
heading shall not be required to provide third party documentation to 
establish their eligibility under 42 U.S.C. 11302(a) or (b) to receive 
services:  Provided further, That unaccompanied youth aged 24 and under 
or families headed by youth aged 24 and under who are living in unsafe 
situations may be served by youth-serving providers funded under this 
heading:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
heading shall be available for the continuum of care program unless the 
Secretary ensures that zero-tolerance recovery housing programs are 
eligible to receive funds under the continuum of care program.

                            Housing Programs

                    rental assistance demonstration

    For continuing activities under the heading ``Rental Assistance 
Demonstration'' in the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-55), $4,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That such funds shall 
only be available to properties converting from assistance under 
section 202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q(c)(2)).

                    project-based rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of project-based 
subsidy contracts under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act''), not otherwise provided for, 
$10,501,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available 
on October 1, 2016 (in addition to the $400,000,000 previously 
appropriated under this heading that became available October 1, 2016), 
and $400,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
available on October 1, 2017:  Provided, That the amounts made 
available under this heading shall be available for expiring or 
terminating section 8 project-based subsidy contracts (including 
section 8 moderate rehabilitation contracts), for amendments to section 
8 project-based subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation contracts), for contracts entered into pursuant to 
section 441 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11401), for renewal of section 8 contracts for units in projects that 
are subject to approved plans of action under the Emergency Low Income 
Housing Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preservation 
and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990, and for administrative and 
other expenses associated with project-based activities and assistance 
funded under this paragraph:  Provided further, That of the total 
amounts provided under this heading, not to exceed $235,000,000 shall 
be available for performance-based contract administrators for section 
8 project-based assistance, for carrying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f):  
Provided further, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
may also use such amounts in the previous proviso for performance-based 
contract administrators for the administration of: interest reduction 
payments pursuant to section 236(a) of the National Housing Act (12 
U.S.C. 1715z-1(a)); rent supplement payments pursuant to section 101 of 
the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); 
section 236(f)(2) rental assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(f)(2)); 
project rental assistance contracts for the elderly under section 
202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project rental 
assistance contracts for supportive housing for persons with 
disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2)); project assistance 
contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public 
Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667); and loans under section 202 of the Housing 
Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667):  Provided further, That 
amounts recaptured under this heading, the heading ``Annual 
Contributions for Assisted Housing'', or the heading ``Housing 
Certificate Fund'', may be used for renewals of or amendments to 
section 8 project-based contracts or for performance-based contract 
administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts 
were appropriated:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, upon the request of the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development, project funds that are held in residual receipts 
accounts for any project subject to a section 8 project-based Housing 
Assistance Payments contract that authorizes HUD or a Housing Finance 
Agency to require that surplus project funds be deposited in an 
interest-bearing residual receipts account and that are in excess of an 
amount to be determined by the Secretary, shall be remitted to the 
Department and deposited in this account, to be available until 
expended:  Provided further, That amounts deposited pursuant to the 
previous proviso shall be available in addition to the amount otherwise 
provided by this heading for uses authorized under this heading.

                        housing for the elderly

    For amendments to capital advance contracts for housing for the 
elderly, as authorized by section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as 
amended, and for project rental assistance for the elderly under 
section 202(c)(2) of such Act, including amendments to contracts for 
such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for such assistance 
for up to a 1-year term, and for senior preservation rental assistance 
contracts, including renewals, as authorized by section 811(e) of the 
American Housing and Economic Opportunity Act of 2000, as amended, and 
for supportive services associated with the housing, $505,000,000 to 
remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That of the 
amount provided under this heading, up to $75,000,000 shall be for 
service coordinators and the continuation of existing congregate 
service grants for residents of assisted housing projects:  Provided 
further, That amounts under this heading shall be available for Real 
Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-related activities 
associated with section 202 projects:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may waive the provisions of section 202 governing the terms 
and conditions of project rental assistance, except that the initial 
contract term for such assistance shall not exceed 5 years in duration: 
 Provided further, That upon request of the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development, project funds that are held in residual receipts 
accounts for any project subject to a section 202 project rental 
assistance contract, and that upon termination of such contract are in 
excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary, shall be 
remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, to be 
available until September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That amounts 
deposited in this account pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
available, in addition to the amounts otherwise provided by this 
heading, for amendments and renewals:  Provided further, That 
unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds transferred to or appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for amendments and renewals notwithstanding the purposes for 
which such funds originally were appropriated.

                 housing for persons with disabilities

    For amendments to capital advance contracts for supportive housing 
for persons with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of the 
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), for 
project rental assistance for supportive housing for persons with 
disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of such Act and for project 
assistance contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 
1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667), including amendments to 
contracts for such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for 
such assistance for up to a 1-year term, for project rental assistance 
to State housing finance agencies and other appropriate entities as 
authorized under section 811(b)(3) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Housing Act, and for supportive services associated with the housing 
for persons with disabilities as authorized by section 811(b)(1) of 
such Act, $154,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  
Provided, That amounts made available under this heading shall be 
available for Real Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-
related activities associated with section 811 projects:  Provided 
further, That, in this fiscal year, upon the request of the Secretary 
of Housing and Urban Development, project funds that are held in 
residual receipts accounts for any project subject to a section 811 
project rental assistance contract and that upon termination of such 
contract are in excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary 
shall be remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, to 
be available until September 30, 2020:  Provided further, That amounts 
deposited in this account pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
available in addition to the amounts otherwise provided by this heading 
for the purposes authorized under this heading:  Provided further, That 
unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds transferred to or appropriated under this heading may be 
used for the current purposes authorized under this heading 
notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds originally were 
appropriated.

                     housing counseling assistance

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance excluding loans, as 
authorized under section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act 
of 1968, as amended, $47,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2018, including up to $4,500,000 for administrative contract 
services:  Provided, That grants made available from amounts provided 
under this heading shall be awarded within 180 days of enactment of 
this Act:  Provided further, That funds shall be used for providing 
counseling and advice to tenants and homeowners, both current and 
prospective, with respect to property maintenance, financial 
management/literacy, and such other matters as may be appropriate to 
assist them in improving their housing conditions, meeting their 
financial needs, and fulfilling the responsibilities of tenancy or 
homeownership; for program administration; and for housing counselor 
training:  Provided further, That for purposes of providing such grants 
from amounts provided under this heading, the Secretary may enter into 
multiyear agreements as appropriate, subject to the availability of 
annual appropriations.

                       rental housing assistance

    For amendments to contracts under section 101 of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) and section 236(f)(2) 
of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) in State-aided, 
noninsured rental housing projects, $20,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such amount, together with unobligated 
balances from recaptured amounts appropriated prior to fiscal year 2006 
from terminated contracts under such sections of law, and any 
unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated under this heading after fiscal year 2005, 
shall also be available for extensions of up to one year for expiring 
contracts under such sections of law.

            payment to manufactured housing fees trust fund

    For necessary expenses as authorized by the National Manufactured 
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401 
et seq.), up to $10,500,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $10,500,000 is to be derived from the Manufactured Housing Fees 
Trust Fund:  Provided, That not to exceed the total amount appropriated 
under this heading shall be available from the general fund of the 
Treasury to the extent necessary to incur obligations and make 
expenditures pending the receipt of collections to the Fund pursuant to 
section 620 of such Act:  Provided further, That the amount made 
available under this heading from the general fund shall be reduced as 
such collections are received during fiscal year 2017 so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 2017 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at zero, and fees pursuant to such section 620 shall be 
modified as necessary to ensure such a final fiscal year 2017 
appropriation:  Provided further, That for the dispute resolution and 
installation programs, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
may assess and collect fees from any program participant:  Provided 
further, That such collections shall be deposited into the Fund, and 
the Secretary, as provided herein, may use such collections, as well as 
fees collected under section 620, for necessary expenses of such Act:  
Provided further, That, notwithstanding the requirements of section 620 
of such Act, the Secretary may carry out responsibilities of the 
Secretary under such Act through the use of approved service providers 
that are paid directly by the recipients of their services.

                     Federal Housing Administration

               mutual mortgage insurance program account

    New commitments to guarantee single family loans insured under the 
Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund shall not exceed $400,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That during 
fiscal year 2017, obligations to make direct loans to carry out the 
purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as amended, 
shall not exceed $5,000,000:  Provided further, That the foregoing 
amount in the previous proviso shall be for loans to nonprofit and 
governmental entities in connection with sales of single family real 
properties owned by the Secretary and formerly insured under the Mutual 
Mortgage Insurance Fund:  Provided further, That for administrative 
contract expenses of the Federal Housing Administration, $130,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2018.

                general and special risk program account

    New commitments to guarantee loans insured under the General and 
Special Risk Insurance Funds, as authorized by sections 238 and 519 of 
the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), shall not 
exceed $30,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any part of which is to 
be guaranteed, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That during fiscal year 2017, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238, 
and 519(a) of the National Housing Act, shall not exceed $5,000,000, 
which shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with the sale of single family real properties owned by the 
Secretary and formerly insured under such Act.

                Government National Mortgage Association

guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

    New commitments to issue guarantees to carry out the purposes of 
section 306 of the National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 
1721(g)), shall not exceed $500,000,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided, That $23,000,000 shall be available for 
necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Government National 
Mortgage Association:  Provided further, That to the extent that 
guaranteed loan commitments exceed $155,000,000,000 on or before April 
1, 2017, an additional $100 for necessary salaries and expenses shall 
be available until expended for each $1,000,000 in additional 
guaranteed loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount 
below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this 
proviso exceed $3,000,000:  Provided further, That receipts from 
Commitment and Multiclass fees collected pursuant to title III of the 
National Housing Act, as amended, shall be credited as offsetting 
collections to this account.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), including 
carrying out the functions of the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development under section 1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1968, and for technical assistance, $90,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That with respect to amounts made 
available under this heading, notwithstanding section 204 of this 
title, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements funded with 
philanthropic entities, other Federal agencies, or State or local 
governments and their agencies for research projects:  Provided 
further, That with respect to the previous proviso, such partners to 
the cooperative agreements must contribute at least a 50 percent match 
toward the cost of the project:  Provided further, That for non-
competitive agreements entered into in accordance with the previous two 
provisos, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall comply 
with section 2(b) of the Federal Funding Accountability and 
Transparency Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-282, 31 U.S.C. note) in lieu 
of compliance with section 102(a)(4)(C) with respect to documentation 
of award decisions:  Provided further, That prior to obligation of 
technical assistance funding, the Secretary shall submit a plan, for 
approval, to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on how 
it will allocate funding for this activity:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided under this heading may be available for the 
doctoral dissertation research grant program.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$65,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary may assess and 
collect fees to cover the costs of the Fair Housing Training Academy, 
and may use such funds to provide such training:  Provided further, 
That no funds made available under this heading shall be used to lobby 
the executive or legislative branches of the Federal Government in 
connection with a specific contract, grant, or loan:  Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading, $300,000 shall be 
available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for the 
creation and promotion of translated materials and other programs that 
support the assistance of persons with limited English proficiency in 
utilizing the services provided by the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development.

            Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes

                         lead hazard reduction

    For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, as authorized by section 
1011 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992, 
$135,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be for the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursuant to 
sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, 
that shall include research, studies, testing, and demonstration 
efforts, including education and outreach concerning lead-based paint 
poisoning and other housing-related diseases and hazards:  Provided, 
That for purposes of environmental review, pursuant to the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other 
provisions of the law that further the purposes of such Act, a grant 
under the Healthy Homes Initiative, or the Lead Technical Studies 
program under this heading or under prior appropriations Acts for such 
purposes under this heading, shall be considered to be funds for a 
special project for purposes of section 305(c) of the Multifamily 
Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994:  Provided further, 
That of the total amount made available under this heading, $55,000,000 
shall be made available on a competitive basis for areas with the 
highest lead-based paint abatement needs:  Provided further, That each 
recipient of funds provided under the previous proviso shall contribute 
an amount not less than 25 percent of the total:  Provided further, 
That each applicant shall certify adequate capacity that is acceptable 
to the Secretary to carry out the proposed use of funds pursuant to a 
notice of funding availability:  Provided further, That amounts made 
available under this heading in this or prior appropriations Acts, and 
that still remain available, may be used for any purpose under this 
heading notwithstanding the purpose for which such amounts were 
appropriated if a program competition is undersubscribed and there are 
other program competitions under this heading that are oversubscribed.

                      Information Technology Fund

    For the development of, modifications to, and infrastructure for 
Department-wide and program-specific information technology systems, 
for the continuing operation and maintenance of both Department-wide 
and program-specific information systems, and for program-related 
maintenance activities, $273,000,000, of which $250,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018, and of which $23,000,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That any 
amounts transferred to this Fund under this Act shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That any amounts transferred to this 
Fund from amounts appropriated by previously enacted appropriations 
Acts may be used for the purposes specified under this Fund, in 
addition to any other information technology purposes for which such 
amounts were appropriated:  Provided further, That not more than 10 
percent of the funds made available under this heading for development, 
modernization and enhancement may be obligated until the Secretary 
submits to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, for 
approval, a plan for expenditure that--(A) identifies for each 
modernization project: (i) the functional and performance capabilities 
to be delivered and the mission benefits to be realized, (ii) the 
estimated life-cycle cost, and (iii) key milestones to be met; and (B) 
demonstrates that each modernization project is: (i) compliant with the 
department's enterprise architecture, (ii) being managed in accordance 
with applicable life-cycle management policies and guidance, (iii) 
subject to the department's capital planning and investment control 
requirements, and (iv) supported by an adequately staffed project 
office.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector 
General in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$129,000,000:  Provided, That the Inspector General shall have 
independent authority over all personnel issues within this office.

    General Provisions--Department of Housing and Urban Development

                     (including transfer of funds)

                         (including rescission)

    Sec. 201.  Fifty percent of the amounts of budget authority, or in 
lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts associated with such budget 
authority, that are recaptured from projects described in section 
1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act 
of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437 note) shall be rescinded or in the case of 
cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget 
authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the 
Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies or local 
governments or local housing agencies with projects approved by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for which settlement 
occurred after January 1, 1992, in accordance with such section. 
Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Secretary may award up to 15 
percent of the budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or 
remitted to the Treasury to provide project owners with incentives to 
refinance their project at a lower interest rate.
    Sec. 202.  None of the amounts made available under this Act may be 
used during fiscal year 2017 to investigate or prosecute under the Fair 
Housing Act any otherwise lawful activity engaged in by one or more 
persons, including the filing or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal 
action, that is engaged in solely for the purpose of achieving or 
preventing action by a Government official or entity, or a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 203. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
amount allocated for fiscal year 2017 under section 854(c) of the AIDS 
Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)), to the city of New York, 
New York, on behalf of the New York-Wayne-White Plains, New York-New 
Jersey Metropolitan Division (hereafter ``metropolitan division'') of 
the New York-Newark-Edison, NY-NJ-PA Metropolitan Statistical Area, 
shall be adjusted by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development by: 
(1) allocating to the city of Jersey City, New Jersey, the proportion 
of the metropolitan area's or division's amount that is based on the 
number of persons living with HIV or AIDS, poverty and fair market 
rents, in the portion of the metropolitan area or division that is 
located in Hudson County, New Jersey; and (2) allocating to the city of 
Paterson, New Jersey, the proportion of the metropolitan area's or 
division's amount that is based on the number of persons living with 
HIV or AIDS, poverty and fair market rents, in the portion of the 
metropolitan area or division that is located in Bergen County and 
Passaic County, New Jersey. The recipient cities shall use amounts 
allocated under this subsection to carry out eligible activities under 
section 855 of the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12904) in 
their respective portions of the metropolitan division that is located 
in New Jersey.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amount 
allocated for fiscal year 2017 under section 854(c) of the AIDS Housing 
Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)), to the city of Wilmington, 
Delaware, on behalf of the Wilmington, Delaware-Maryland-New Jersey 
Metropolitan Division (hereafter ``metropolitan division''), shall be 
adjusted by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development by 
allocating to the State of New Jersey the proportion of the 
metropolitan division's amount that is based on the number of persons 
living with HIV or AIDS, poverty and fair market rents, in the portion 
of the metropolitan division that is located in New Jersey. The State 
of New Jersey shall use amounts allocated to the State under this 
subsection to carry out eligible activities under section 855 of the 
AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12904) in the portion of the 
metropolitan division that is located in New Jersey.
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development shall allocate to Wake County, North 
Carolina, the amounts that otherwise would be allocated for fiscal year 
2017 under section 854(c) of the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 
U.S.C. 12903(c)) to the city of Raleigh, North Carolina, on behalf of 
the Raleigh-Cary North Carolina Metropolitan Statistical Area. Any 
amounts allocated to Wake County shall be used to carry out eligible 
activities under section 855 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12904) within such 
metropolitan statistical area.
    (d) Notwithstanding section 854(c) of the AIDS Housing Opportunity 
Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)), the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may adjust the allocation of the amounts that otherwise 
would be allocated for fiscal year 2017 under section 854(c) of such 
Act, upon the written request of an applicant, in conjunction with the 
State(s), for a formula allocation on behalf of a metropolitan 
statistical area, to designate the State or States in which the 
metropolitan statistical area is located as the eligible grantee(s) of 
the allocation. In the case that a metropolitan statistical area 
involves more than one State, such amounts allocated to each State 
shall be based on the proportion of the metropolitan statistical area's 
amount that is based on the number of persons living with HIV or AIDS, 
poverty and fair market rents, in the portion of the metropolitan 
statistical area that is located in that State. Any amounts allocated 
to a State under this section shall be used to carry out eligible 
activities within the portion of the metropolitan statistical area 
located in that State.
    Sec. 204.  Except as explicitly provided in law, any grant, 
cooperative agreement or other assistance made pursuant to title II of 
this Act shall be made on a competitive basis and in accordance with 
section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform 
Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
    Sec. 205.  Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a 
contract or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for 
services and facilities of the Federal National Mortgage Association, 
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any 
member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within 
the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1).
    Sec. 206.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or through a 
reprogramming of funds, no part of any appropriation for the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development shall be available for any program, 
project or activity in excess of amounts set forth in the budget 
estimates submitted to Congress.
    Sec. 207.  Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development which are subject to the Government Corporation 
Control Act are hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within the 
limits of funds and borrowing authority available to each such 
corporation or agency and in accordance with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of such Act as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the budget for 2017 for such corporation or 
agency except as hereinafter provided:  Provided, That collections of 
these corporations and agencies may be used for new loan or mortgage 
purchase commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this 
Act (unless such loans are in support of other forms of assistance 
provided for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this 
proviso shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty 
operations of these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases 
are necessary to protect the financial interest of the United States 
Government.
    Sec. 208.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
provide quarterly reports to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations regarding all uncommitted, unobligated, recaptured and 
excess funds in each program and activity within the jurisdiction of 
the Department and shall submit additional, updated budget information 
to these Committees upon request.
    Sec. 209.  The President's formal budget request for fiscal year 
2018, as well as the Department of Housing and Urban Development's 
congressional budget justifications to be submitted to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall 
use the identical account and sub-account structure provided under this 
Act.
    Sec. 210.  A public housing agency or such other entity that 
administers Federal housing assistance for the Housing Authority of the 
county of Los Angeles, California, and the States of Alaska, Iowa, and 
Mississippi shall not be required to include a resident of public 
housing or a recipient of assistance provided under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 on the board of directors or a 
similar governing board of such agency or entity as required under 
section (2)(b) of such Act. Each public housing agency or other entity 
that administers Federal housing assistance under section 8 for the 
Housing Authority of the county of Los Angeles, California and the 
States of Alaska, Iowa and Mississippi that chooses not to include a 
resident of public housing or a recipient of section 8 assistance on 
the board of directors or a similar governing board shall establish an 
advisory board of not less than six residents of public housing or 
recipients of section 8 assistance to provide advice and comment to the 
public housing agency or other administering entity on issues related 
to public housing and section 8. Such advisory board shall meet not 
less than quarterly.
    Sec. 211.  No funds provided under this title may be used for an 
audit of the Government National Mortgage Association that makes 
applicable requirements under the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 
U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
    Sec. 212. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, subject 
to the conditions listed under this section, for fiscal years 2017 and 
2018, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may authorize the 
transfer of some or all project-based assistance, debt held or insured 
by the Secretary and statutorily required low-income and very low-
income use restrictions if any, associated with one or more multifamily 
housing project or projects to another multifamily housing project or 
projects.
    (b) Phased Transfers.--Transfers of project-based assistance under 
this section may be done in phases to accommodate the financing and 
other requirements related to rehabilitating or constructing the 
project or projects to which the assistance is transferred, to ensure 
that such project or projects meet the standards under subsection (c).
    (c) The transfer authorized in subsection (a) is subject to the 
following conditions:
            (1) Number and bedroom size of units.--
                    (A) For occupied units in the transferring project: 
                The number of low-income and very low-income units and 
                the configuration (i.e., bedroom size) provided by the 
                transferring project shall be no less than when 
                transferred to the receiving project or projects and 
                the net dollar amount of Federal assistance provided to 
                the transferring project shall remain the same in the 
                receiving project or projects.
                    (B) For unoccupied units in the transferring 
                project: The Secretary may authorize a reduction in the 
                number of dwelling units in the receiving project or 
                projects to allow for a reconfiguration of bedroom 
                sizes to meet current market demands, as determined by 
                the Secretary and provided there is no increase in the 
                project-based assistance budget authority.
            (2) The transferring project shall, as determined by the 
        Secretary, be either physically obsolete or economically 
        nonviable.
            (3) The receiving project or projects shall meet or exceed 
        applicable physical standards established by the Secretary.
            (4) The owner or mortgagor of the transferring project 
        shall notify and consult with the tenants residing in the 
        transferring project and provide a certification of approval by 
        all appropriate local governmental officials.
            (5) The tenants of the transferring project who remain 
        eligible for assistance to be provided by the receiving project 
        or projects shall not be required to vacate their units in the 
        transferring project or projects until new units in the 
        receiving project are available for occupancy.
            (6) The Secretary determines that this transfer is in the 
        best interest of the tenants.
            (7) If either the transferring project or the receiving 
        project or projects meets the condition specified in subsection 
        (d)(2)(A), any lien on the receiving project resulting from 
        additional financing obtained by the owner shall be subordinate 
        to any FHA-insured mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on, 
        such project by the Secretary, except that the Secretary may 
        waive this requirement upon determination that such a waiver is 
        necessary to facilitate the financing of acquisition, 
        construction, and/or rehabilitation of the receiving project or 
        projects.
            (8) If the transferring project meets the requirements of 
        subsection (d)(2), the owner or mortgagor of the receiving 
        project or projects shall execute and record either a 
        continuation of the existing use agreement or a new use 
        agreement for the project where, in either case, any use 
        restrictions in such agreement are of no lesser duration than 
        the existing use restrictions.
            (9) The transfer does not increase the cost (as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
        amended) of any FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent that 
        appropriations are provided in advance for the amount of any 
        such increased cost.
    (d) For purposes of this section--
            (1) the terms ``low-income'' and ``very low-income'' shall 
        have the meanings provided by the statute and/or regulations 
        governing the program under which the project is insured or 
        assisted;
            (2) the term ``multifamily housing project'' means housing 
        that meets one of the following conditions--
                    (A) housing that is subject to a mortgage insured 
                under the National Housing Act;
                    (B) housing that has project-based assistance 
                attached to the structure including projects undergoing 
                mark to market debt restructuring under the Multifamily 
                Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Housing Act;
                    (C) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959, as amended by section 801 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act;
                    (D) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959, as such section existed before 
                the enactment of the Cranston-Gonzales National 
                Affordable Housing Act;
                    (E) housing that is assisted under section 811 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act; 
                or
                    (F) housing or vacant land that is subject to a use 
                agreement;
            (3) the term ``project-based assistance'' means--
                    (A) assistance provided under section 8(b) of the 
                United States Housing Act of 1937;
                    (B) assistance for housing constructed or 
                substantially rehabilitated pursuant to assistance 
                provided under section 8(b)(2) of such Act (as such 
                section existed immediately before October 1, 1983);
                    (C) rent supplement payments under section 101 of 
                the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965;
                    (D) interest reduction payments under section 236 
                and/or additional assistance payments under section 
                236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act;
                    (E) assistance payments made under section 
                202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959; and
                    (F) assistance payments made under section 
                811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
                Housing Act;
            (4) the term ``receiving project or projects'' means the 
        multifamily housing project or projects to which some or all of 
        the project-based assistance, debt, and statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions are to be 
        transferred;
            (5) the term ``transferring project'' means the multifamily 
        housing project which is transferring some or all of the 
        project-based assistance, debt, and the statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions to the 
        receiving project or projects; and
            (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Housing 
        and Urban Development.
    (e) Research Report.--The Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of 
the transfer authority under this section, including the effect of such 
transfers on the operational efficiency, contract rents, physical and 
financial conditions, and long-term preservation of the affected 
properties.
    Sec. 213. (a) No assistance shall be provided under section 8 of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to any 
individual who--
            (1) is enrolled as a student at an institution of higher 
        education (as defined under section 102 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
            (2) is under 24 years of age;
            (3) is not a veteran;
            (4) is unmarried;
            (5) does not have a dependent child;
            (6) is not a person with disabilities, as such term is 
        defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the United States Housing Act 
        of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving 
        assistance under such section 8 as of November 30, 2005;
            (7) is not a youth who left foster care at age 14 or older 
        and is at risk of becoming homeless; and
            (8) is not otherwise individually eligible, or has parents 
        who, individually or jointly, are not eligible, to receive 
        assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
        1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
    (b) For purposes of determining the eligibility of a person to 
receive assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial assistance (in excess of amounts 
received for tuition and any other required fees and charges) that an 
individual receives under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1001 et seq.), from private sources, or an institution of higher 
education (as defined under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1002)), shall be considered income to that individual, except for a 
person over the age of 23 with dependent children.
    Sec. 214.  The funds made available for Native Alaskans under the 
heading ``Indian Block Grants'' in title II of this Act shall be 
allocated to the same Native Alaskan housing block grant recipients 
that received funds in fiscal year 2005.
    Sec. 215.  Notwithstanding the limitation in the first sentence of 
section 255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)), the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may, until September 30, 
2017, insure and enter into commitments to insure mortgages under such 
section 255.
    Sec. 216.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal 
year 2017, in managing and disposing of any multifamily property that 
is owned or has a mortgage held by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development, and during the process of foreclosure on any property with 
a contract for rental assistance payments under section 8 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 or other Federal programs, the Secretary 
shall maintain any rental assistance payments under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 and other programs that are attached 
to any dwelling units in the property. To the extent the Secretary 
determines, in consultation with the tenants and the local government, 
that such a multifamily property owned or held by the Secretary is not 
feasible for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 
or other programs, based on consideration of (1) the costs of 
rehabilitating and operating the property and all available Federal, 
State, and local resources, including rent adjustments under section 
524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
1997 (``MAHRAA'') and (2) environmental conditions that cannot be 
remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may, in 
consultation with the tenants of that property, contract for project-
based rental assistance payments with an owner or owners of other 
existing housing properties, or provide other rental assistance. The 
Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that project-
based contracts remain in effect prior to foreclosure, subject to the 
exercise of contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of 
tenants for imminent major threats to health and safety after written 
notice to and informed consent of the affected tenants and use of other 
available remedies, such as partial abatements or receivership. After 
disposition of any multifamily property described under this section, 
the contract and allowable rent levels on such properties shall be 
subject to the requirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.
    Sec. 217.  The commitment authority funded by fees as provided 
under the heading ``Community Development Loan Guarantees Program 
Account'' may be used to guarantee, or make commitments to guarantee, 
notes, or other obligations issued by any State on behalf of non-
entitlement communities in the State in accordance with the 
requirements of section 108 of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1974:  Provided, That any State receiving such a guarantee or 
commitment shall distribute all funds subject to such guarantee to the 
units of general local government in non-entitlement areas that 
received the commitment.
    Sec. 218.  Public housing agencies that own and operate 400 or 
fewer public housing units may elect to be exempt from any asset 
management requirement imposed by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development in connection with the operating fund rule:  Provided, That 
an agency seeking a discontinuance of a reduction of subsidy under the 
operating fund formula shall not be exempt from asset management 
requirements.
    Sec. 219.  With respect to the use of amounts provided in this Act 
and in future Acts for the operation, capital improvement and 
management of public housing as authorized by sections 9(d) and 9(e) of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(d) and (e)), the 
Secretary shall not impose any requirement or guideline relating to 
asset management that restricts or limits in any way the use of capital 
funds for central office costs pursuant to section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2) 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)):  
Provided, That a public housing agency may not use capital funds 
authorized under section 9(d) for activities that are eligible under 
section 9(e) for assistance with amounts from the operating fund in 
excess of the amounts permitted under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
    Sec. 220.  No official or employee of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development shall be designated as an allotment holder unless the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer has determined that such 
allotment holder has implemented an adequate system of funds control 
and has received training in funds control procedures and directives. 
The Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that there is a trained 
allotment holder for each HUD sub-office under the accounts ``Executive 
Offices'' and ``Administrative Support Offices,'' as well as each 
account receiving appropriations for ``Program Office Salaries and 
Expenses'', ``Government National Mortgage Association--Guarantees of 
Mortgage-Backed Securities Loan Guarantee Program Account'', and 
``Office of Inspector General'' within the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development.
    Sec. 221.  The Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development shall, for fiscal year 2017 and hereafter, notify the 
public through the Federal Register and other means, as determined 
appropriate, of the issuance of a notice of the availability of 
assistance or notice of funding availability (NOFA) for any program or 
discretionary fund administered by the Secretary that is to be 
competitively awarded. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
fiscal year 2017 and hereafter, the Secretary may make the NOFA 
available only on the Internet at the appropriate Government web site 
or through other electronic media, as determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 222.  Payment of attorney fees in program-related litigation 
shall be paid from the individual program office and Office of General 
Counsel salaries and expenses appropriations. The annual budget 
submission for the program offices and the Office of General Counsel 
shall include any such projected litigation costs for attorney fees as 
a separate line item request. No funds provided in this title may be 
used to pay any such litigation costs for attorney fees until the 
Department submits for review a spending plan for such costs to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 223.  The Secretary is authorized to transfer up to 10 percent 
or $4,000,000, whichever is less, of funds appropriated for any office 
under the heading ``Administrative Support Offices'' or for any account 
under the general heading ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' to 
any other such office or account:  Provided, That no appropriation for 
any such office or account shall be increased or decreased by more than 
10 percent or $4,000,000, whichever is less, without prior written 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide notification to such 
Committees three business days in advance of any such transfers under 
this section up to 10 percent or $4,000,000, whichever is less.
    Sec. 224.  For fiscal year 2017 and hereafter the Disaster Housing 
Assistance Programs, administered by the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, shall be considered a ``program of the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development'' under section 904 of the McKinney Act 
for the purpose of income verifications and matching.
    Sec. 225. (a) Any entity receiving housing assistance payments 
shall maintain decent, safe, and sanitary conditions, as determined by 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (in this section 
referred to as the ``Secretary''), and comply with any standards under 
applicable State or local laws, rules, ordinances, or regulations 
relating to the physical condition of any property covered under a 
housing assistance payment contract.
    (b) The Secretary shall take action under subsection (c) when a 
multifamily housing project with a section 8 contract or contract for 
similar project-based assistance--
            (1) receives a Uniform Physical Condition Standards (UPCS) 
        score of 30 or less;
            (2) fails to certify in writing to the Secretary within 3 
        days that all Exigent Health and Safety deficiencies identified 
        by the inspector at the project have been corrected; or
            (3) receives a UPCS score between 31 and 59 and has 
        received consecutive scores of less than 60 on UPCS 
        inspections.
            Such requirements shall apply to insured and noninsured 
        projects with assistance attached to the units under section 8 
        of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), but 
        do not apply to such units assisted under section 8(o)(13) (42 
        U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) or to public housing units assisted with 
        capital or operating funds under section 9 of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g).
    (c)(1) The Secretary shall notify the owner and provide an 
opportunity for response within 15 days after the results of the UPCS 
inspection are issued. If the violations remain, the Secretary shall 
develop a plan to bring the property into compliance within 30 days 
after the results of the UPCS inspection are issued and must provide 
the owner with a Notice of Default with a specified timetable, 
determined by the Secretary, for correcting all deficiencies. The 
Secretary must also provide a copy of the Notice of Default to the 
tenants, the local government, any mortgagees, and any contract 
administrator. If the owner's appeal results in a UPCS score of 60 or 
above, the Secretary may withdraw the Notice of Default.
    (2) At the end of the time period for correcting all deficiencies 
specified in the Notice of Default, if the owner fails to fully correct 
such deficiencies, the Secretary may--
            (A) require immediate replacement of project management 
        with a management agent approved by the Secretary;
            (B) impose civil money penalties, which shall be used 
        solely for the purpose of supporting safe and sanitary 
        conditions at applicable properties, as designated by the 
        Secretary, with priority given to the tenants of the property 
        affected by the penalty;
            (C) abate the section 8 contract, including partial 
        abatement, as determined by the Secretary, until all 
        deficiencies have been corrected;
            (D) pursue transfer of the project to an owner, approved by 
        the Secretary under established procedures, which will be 
        obligated to promptly make all required repairs and to accept 
        renewal of the assistance contract as long as such renewal is 
        offered;
            (E) transfer the existing section 8 contract to another 
        project or projects and owner or owners;
            (F) pursue exclusionary sanctions, including suspensions or 
        debarments from Federal programs;
            (G) seek judicial appointment of a receiver to manage the 
        property and cure all project deficiencies or seek a judicial 
        order of specific performance requiring the owner to cure all 
        project deficiencies;
            (H) work with the owner, lender, or other related party to 
        stabilize the property in an attempt to preserve the property 
        through compliance, transfer of ownership, or an infusion of 
        capital provided by a third-party that requires time to 
        effectuate; or
            (I) take any other regulatory or contractual remedies 
        available as deemed necessary and appropriate by the Secretary.
    (d) The Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that 
project-based contracts remain in effect, subject to the exercise of 
contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of tenants for 
major threats to health and safety after written notice to and informed 
consent of the affected tenants and use of other remedies set forth 
above. To the extent the Secretary determines, in consultation with the 
tenants and the local government, that the property is not feasible for 
continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 or other 
programs, based on consideration of (1) the costs of rehabilitating and 
operating the property and all available Federal, State, and local 
resources, including rent adjustments under section 524 of the 
Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 
(``MAHRAA'') and (2) environmental conditions that cannot be remedied 
in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may, in consultation with 
the tenants of that property, contract for project-based rental 
assistance payments with an owner or owners of other existing housing 
properties, or provide other rental assistance.
    (e) The Secretary shall report quarterly on all properties covered 
by this section that are assessed through the Real Estate Assessment 
Center and have UPCS physical inspection scores of less than 60 or have 
received an unsatisfactory management and occupancy review within the 
past 36 months. The report shall include--
            (1) the enforcement actions being taken to address such 
        conditions, including imposition of civil money penalties and 
        termination of subsidies, and identify properties that have 
        such conditions multiple times;
            (2) actions that the Department of Housing and Urban 
        Development is taking to protect tenants of such identified 
        properties; and
            (3) any administrative or legislative recommendations to 
        further improve the living conditions at properties covered 
        under a housing assistance payment contract.
    Sec. 226.  None of the funds made available by this Act, or any 
other Act, for purposes authorized under section 8 (only with respect 
to the tenant-based rental assistance program) and section 9 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.), may be used 
by any public housing agency for any amount of salary, including 
bonuses, for the chief executive officer of which, or any other 
official or employee of which, that exceeds the annual rate of basic 
pay payable for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule at any 
time during any public housing agency fiscal year 2017.
    Sec. 227.  Section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437v) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (m)(1), by striking ``fiscal year'' and 
        all that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
        ``fiscal year 2017.''; and
            (2) in subsection (o), by striking ``September'' and all 
        that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
        ``September 30, 2017.''.
    Sec. 228.  None of the funds in this Act provided to the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development may be used to make a grant award 
unless the Secretary notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations not less than 3 full business days before any project, 
State, locality, housing authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or 
other entity selected to receive a grant award is announced by the 
Department or its offices.
    Sec. 229.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to require or enforce the Physical Needs Assessment (PNA).
    Sec. 230.  None of the funds made available by this Act nor any 
receipts or amounts collected under any Federal Housing Administration 
program may be used to implement the Homeowners Armed with Knowledge 
(HAWK) program.
    Sec. 231.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used by the Federal Housing Administration, the Government National 
Mortgage Administration, or the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development to insure, securitize, or establish a Federal guarantee of 
any mortgage or mortgage backed security that refinances or otherwise 
replaces a mortgage that has been subject to eminent domain 
condemnation or seizure, by a State, municipality, or any other 
political subdivision of a State.
    Sec. 232.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to terminate the status of a unit of general local government as a 
metropolitan city (as defined in section 102 of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) with respect to 
grants under section 106 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306).
    Sec. 233.  Amounts made available under this Act which are either 
appropriated, allocated, advanced on a reimbursable basis, or 
transferred to the Office of Policy Development and Research in the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development and functions thereof, for 
research, evaluation, or statistical purposes, and which are unexpended 
at the time of completion of a contract, grant, or cooperative 
agreement, may be deobligated and shall immediately become available 
and may be reobligated in that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal 
year for the research, evaluation, or statistical purposes for which 
the amounts are made available to that Office subject to reprogramming 
requirements in section 405 of this Act.
    Sec. 234.  None of the funds under this title may be used for 
awards, including performance, special act, or spot, for any employee 
of the Department of Housing and Urban Development who is subject to 
administrative discipline in fiscal year 2017, including suspension 
from work.
    Sec. 235.  Funds made available in this title under the heading 
``Homeless Assistance Grants'' may be used by the Secretary to 
participate in Performance Partnership Pilots authorized under section 
526 of division H of Public Law 113-76, section 524 of division G of 
Public Law 113-235, section 525 of division H of Public Law 114-113, 
and such authorities as are enacted for Performance Partnership Pilots 
in an appropriations Act for fiscal year 2017:  Provided, That such 
participation shall be limited to no more than 10 continuums of care 
and housing activities to improve outcomes for disconnected youth.
    Sec. 236.  With respect to grant amounts awarded under the heading 
``Homeless Assistance Grants'' for fiscal years 2015, 2016, and 2017 
for the continuum of care (CoC) program as authorized under subtitle C 
of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, costs paid 
by program income of grant recipients may count toward meeting the 
recipient's matching requirements, provided the costs are eligible CoC 
costs that supplement the recipients CoC program.
    Sec. 237.  Unobligated balances, including recaptures and 
carryover, remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development for administrative costs of the Office of 
Community Planning and Development associated with funds appropriated 
to the Department for specific disaster relief and related purposes and 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act, including information technology costs 
and costs for administering and overseeing such specific disaster 
related funds, shall be transferred to the Program Office Salaries and 
Expenses, Community Planning and Development account for the 
Department, shall remain available until expended, and may be used for 
such administrative costs for administering any funds appropriated to 
the Department for any disaster relief and related purposes in any 
prior or future act, notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds 
were appropriated:  Provided, That the amounts transferred pursuant to 
this section that were previously designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a Concurrent Resolution on the Budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act are designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 and shall be transferred only if the President subsequently 
so designates the entire transfer and transmits such designation to the 
Congress.
    Sec. 238. (a) Section 302 of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning 
Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4822) is amended in subsection (e)--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (i) by striking ``handicapped'' and inserting 
                ``persons with disabilities, or any 0-bedroom 
                dwelling'';
                    (ii) by inserting ``or'' after ``expected to 
                reside;''; and
                    (iii) by striking ``less than 7 years of age'' and 
                inserting ``under age 6'';
            (2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
        ``.''; and
            (3) by striking paragraph (3).
    (b) Section 1004 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard 
Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851b) is amended in paragraph (27)--
            (1) by inserting ``or any 0-bedroom dwelling'' after 
        ``disabilities,''; and
            (2) by deleting ``housing for the elderly or persons with 
        disabilities) or any 0 bedroom dwelling'' and inserting 
        ``housing)''.
    (c) Section 401 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 
2681) is amended in paragraph (17)--
            (1) by inserting ``or any 0-bedroom dwelling'' after 
        ``disabilities,''; and
            (2) by deleting ``housing for the elderly or persons with 
        disabilities) or any 0 bedroom dwelling'' and inserting 
        ``housing)''.
    Sec. 239. (a) Capital Fund Replacement Reserves.--Section 9 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (j), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(7) Treatment of replacement reserve.--The requirements 
        of this subsection shall not apply to funds held in replacement 
        reserves established pursuant to subsection (n).''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(n) Establishment of Replacement Reserves.--
            ``(1) In general.--Public housing agencies shall be 
        permitted to establish a replacement reserve to fund any of the 
        capital activities listed in subsection (d)(1).
            ``(2) Source and amount of funds for replacement reserve.--
        At any time, a public housing agency may deposit funds from 
        such agency's Capital Fund into a replacement reserve, subject 
        to the following:
                    ``(A) At the discretion of the Secretary, public 
                housing agencies may transfer and hold in a replacement 
                reserve funds originating from additional sources.
                    ``(B) No minimum transfer of funds to a replacement 
                reserve shall be required.
                    ``(C) At any time, a public housing agency may not 
                hold in a replacement reserve more than the amount the 
                public housing authority has determined necessary to 
                satisfy the anticipated capital needs of properties in 
                its portfolio assisted under this section, as outlined 
                in its Capital Fund 5-Year Action Plan, or a comparable 
                plan, as determined by the Secretary.
                    ``(D) The Secretary may establish, by regulation, a 
                maximum replacement reserve level or levels that are 
                below amounts determined under subparagraph (C), which 
                may be based upon the size of the portfolio assisted 
                under this section or other factors.
            ``(3) Transfer of operating funds.--In first establishing a 
        replacement reserve, the Secretary may allow public housing 
        agencies to transfer more than 20 percent of its operating 
        funds into its replacement reserve.
            ``(4) Expenditure.--Funds in a replacement reserve may be 
        used for purposes authorized by subsection (d)(1) and contained 
        in its Capital Fund 5-Year Action Plan.
            ``(5) Management and report.--The Secretary shall establish 
        appropriate accounting and reporting requirements to ensure 
        that public housing agencies are spending funds on eligible 
        projects and that funds in the replacement reserve are 
        connected to capital needs.''.
    (b) Flexibility of Operating Fund Amounts.--Paragraph (1) of 
section 9(g) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437g(g)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(1)'' and all that follows through ``--
        Of'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Flexibility in use of funds.--
                    ``(A) Flexibility for capital fund amounts.--Of''; 
                and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Flexibility for operating fund amounts.--Of 
                any amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2017 or any 
                fiscal year thereafter that are allocated for fiscal 
                year 2017 or any fiscal year thereafter from the 
                Operating Fund for any public housing agency, the 
                agency may use not more than 20 percent for activities 
                that are eligible under subsection (d) for assistance 
                with amounts from the Capital Fund, but only if the 
                public housing plan under section 5A for the agency 
                provides for such use.''.
    Sec. 240.  Section 8(x)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437f(x)) is amended by striking ``(B)'' and all that 
follows up to the period and inserting the following:
                    ``(B)(i) for a period not to exceed 36 months, 
                otherwise eligible youths who have attained at least 18 
                years of age and not more than 24 years of age and who, 
                at age 16 or older, have left or will leave foster care 
                within 90 days, in accordance with a transition plan 
                described in section 475(5)(H) of the Social Security 
                Act, and is homeless or is at risk of becoming 
                homeless, or (ii) except that an applicant may extend 
                the 36-month period, if the applicant enrolls an 
                eligible youth in a program authorized under section 
                23, in accordance with the length of the contract of 
                participation for that eligible youth under section 
                23(c)(3)''.
    Sec. 241. (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may establish, through notice in the Federal Register, a 
demonstration program to incentivize public housing agencies, as 
defined in section 3(b)(6) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (in 
this section referred to as ``the Act''), to implement measures to 
reduce their energy and water consumption.
    (b) Eligibility.--Public housing agencies that operate public 
housing programs that meet the demonstration requirements, as 
determined by the Secretary, shall be eligible for participation in the 
demonstration.
    (c) Incentive.--The Secretary may provide an incentive to an 
eligible public housing agency that uses capital funds, operating 
funds, grants, utility rebates, and other resources to reduce its 
energy and/or water consumption in accordance with a plan approved by 
the Secretary.
            (1) Base utility consumption level.--The initial base 
        utility consumption level under the approved plan shall be set 
        at the public housing agency's rolling base consumption level 
        immediately prior to the installation of energy conservation 
        measures.
            (2) First year utility cost savings.--For the first year 
        that an approved plan is in effect, the Secretary shall 
        allocate the utility consumption level in the public housing 
        operating fund using the base utility consumption level.
            (3) Subsequent year savings.--For each subsequent year that 
        the plan is in effect, the Secretary shall decrease the utility 
        consumption level by one percent of the initial base utility 
        consumption level per year until the utility consumption level 
        equals the public housing agency's actual consumption level 
        that followed the installation of energy conservation measures, 
        at which time the plan will terminate.
            (4) Use of utility cost savings.--The public housing agency 
        may use the funds resulting from the energy conservation 
        measures, in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3), for either 
        operating expenses, as defined by section 9(e)(1) of the Act, 
        or capital improvements, as defined by section 9(d)(1) of the 
        Act.
            (5) Duration of plan.--The length in years of the utility 
        conservation plan shall not exceed the number of percentage 
        points in utility consumption reduction a public housing agency 
        achieves through the energy conservation measures implemented 
        under this demonstration, but in no case shall it exceed 20 
        years.
            (6) Other requirements.--The Secretary may establish such 
        other requirements as necessary to further the purposes of this 
        demonstration.
            (7) Evaluation.--Each public housing agency participating 
        in the demonstration shall submit to the Secretary such 
        performance and evaluation reports concerning the reduction in 
        energy consumption and compliance with the requirements of this 
        section as the Secretary may require.
    (d) Termination.--Public housing agencies may enter into this 
demonstration for 5 years after the date on which the demonstration 
program is commenced.
    Sec. 242.  Section 211 of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Appropriations Act, 2008, is repealed.
    Sec. 243. (a) Authority.--To encourage families to move to lower-
poverty areas and expand access to opportunity areas, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development (hereafter referred to as ``Secretary'') 
may implement a mobility demonstration to administer Housing Choice 
Voucher assistance under section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act 
of 1937 (hereafter referred to as ``1937 Act'') (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) 
for fiscal year 2017 through fiscal year 2021.
    (b) Demonstration Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary must establish the 
        competitive selection criteria and requirements for 
        participation in the demonstration. The Secretary may require 
        participating PHAs to use a randomized selection process among 
        the families eligible to receive mobility assistance under this 
        demonstration.
            (2) Regional housing mobility plan.--Applicant PHAs must 
        submit a Regional Housing Mobility Plan (hereafter referred to 
        as ``the Plan'').
                    (A) The Plan must meet all requirements established 
                by the Secretary and must identify--
                            (i) the PHAs that will participate in the 
                        regional housing mobility program and the 
                        number of vouchers each participating PHA will 
                        make available out of its existing programs in 
                        support of the mobility demonstration;
                            (ii) any community-based organizations, 
                        nonprofit organizations, businesses, and other 
                        entities that commit to participate;
                            (iii) any waivers or alternative 
                        requirements requested for the execution of the 
                        Plan; and
                            (iv) specific actions that the PHAs and 
                        other entities will undertake to accomplish the 
                        goals of the demonstration, which must include 
                        a comprehensive approach to enable a successful 
                        transition to opportunity areas and may include 
                        counseling and continued support for families.
                    (B) The Plan may also establish preferences for 
                participating families, including a preference for 
                families with children, based on regional housing needs 
                and priorities.
                    (C) The Plan may provide for the use of exception 
                payment standards that do not exceed 110 percent of the 
                HUD-published small area Fair Market Rent for the 
                covered exception payment standard area.
                    (D) Units contributed by a PHA participating in a 
                regional housing mobility program to a pool of vouchers 
                that will be project-based within the jurisdiction of 
                that program are exempt from the percentage limitation 
                in section 8(o)(13)(B) of the 1937 Act.
    (c) Funding for Mobility-Related Services.--In order to provide 
mobility-related services, PHAs participating in this demonstration may 
use administrative fees under section 8(q) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 
1437f(q)), their administrative fee reserves, and funding from private 
entities. Mobility-related services may include but are not limited to 
such things as counseling, portability coordination, landlord outreach, 
and administrative activities associated with establishing and 
operating a regional housing mobility program.
    (d) Waivers or Alternative Requirements.--
            (1) In order to allow for PHAs to implement and administer 
        their Plans, the Secretary may waive or specify alternative 
        requirements for the following provisions of the 1937 Act:
                    (A) Sections 8(o)(7)(A) and 8(o)(13)(E)(i) (related 
                to the term of a family's assisted lease and associated 
                mobility requirements).
                    (B) Section 8(o)(13)(C)(i) (related to the ability 
                of a PHA participating in a regional housing mobility 
                program to administer assistance contributed to the 
                program consistent with the Plan identified in 
                paragraph (2)).
                    (C) Section 8(o)(13)(F) (related to the term of a 
                housing assistance payments (HAP) contract).
                    (D) Section 8(r)(2) (related to the ability of a 
                PHA participating in a regional housing mobility 
                program to administer assistance under section 8(o) 
                anywhere within the jurisdiction of that program).
                    (E) Section 8(x)(2) (related to the length of time 
                a PHA may provide assistance under section 8(o) to 
                youth participating in the Family Unification Program 
                (FUP)).
            (2) The Secretary must publish by notice in the Federal 
        Register any waivers or alternative requirements for statutory 
        provisions no later than 10 days before the effective date of 
        such notice.
    (e) Implementation by Notice.--The Secretary may implement the 
demonstration, including its terms, procedures, requirements, and 
conditions, by notice.
    (f) Evaluation.--No later than five years following implementation 
of the regional housing mobility programs, the Secretary must publish 
an evaluation of the effectiveness of the demonstration, subject to the 
availability of funding to conduct the evaluation.
    Sec. 244.  The language under the heading Rental Assistance 
Demonstration in the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-55), is amended--
            (1) in the undesignated paragraph before the first proviso, 
        by inserting the following before the colon: ``(`First 
        Component' herein)'';
            (2) in the second proviso, by striking ``until September 
        30, 2018'' and inserting ``for fiscal year 2012 and 
        thereafter'';
            (3) in the fourth proviso, by striking ``185,000'' and 
        inserting ``250,000'';
            (4) in the fourteenth, by--
                    (A) inserting ``or nonprofit'' before ``entity, 
                then a capable entity,''; and
                    (B) striking ``preserves its interest'' and 
                inserting ``or a nonprofit entity preserves an 
                interest'';
            (5) by amending the eighteenth proviso to read as follows--
                ``Provided further, That for fiscal year 2012 and 
                hereafter, owners of properties assisted or previously 
                assisted under section 101 of the Housing and Urban 
                Development Act of 1965, section 236(f)(2) of the 
                National Housing Act, or section 8(e)(2) of the United 
                States Housing Act of 1937, for which a contract 
                expires or terminates due to prepayment on or after 
                October 1, 2006 has caused or results in the 
                termination of rental assistance or affordability 
                restrictions or both and the issuance of tenant 
                protection vouchers under section 8(o) or section 8(t) 
                of the Act, or with a project rental assistance 
                contract under section 202(c)(2) of Housing Act of 
                1959, shall be eligible, subject to requirements 
                established by the Secretary, including but not limited 
                to tenant consultation procedures, for conversion of 
                assistance available or provided for such vouchers or 
                assistance contracts, to assistance under a long-term 
                project-based subsidy contract under section 8 of the 
                Act, which shall have a term of no less than 20 years, 
                which shall have initial rents set at comparable market 
                rents for the market area, with subsequent rent 
                adjustments only by an operating cost factor 
                established by the Secretary, and which shall be 
                eligible for renewal under section 524 of the 
                Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability 
                Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note), or, subject to 
                agreement of the administering public housing agency, 
                to assistance under section 8(o)(13) of the Act, to 
                which the limitation under subparagraph (B) of section 
                8(o)(13) of the Act shall not apply and for which the 
                Secretary may waive or alter the provisions of 
                subparagraphs (C) and (D) of section 8(o)(13) of the 
                Act (``Second Component'' herein):'';
            (6) by inserting the following proviso before the 
        nineteenth: ``Provided further, That conversions of assistance 
        under the Second Component may not be the basis for re-
        screening or termination of assistance or eviction of any 
        tenant family in a property participating in the 
        demonstration:'';
            (7) in the twentieth, as amended (reordered) above, by 
        striking ``previous proviso'' and all that follows through the 
        end of the proviso and inserting ``Second Component, except for 
        conversion of Section 202 project rental assistance contracts, 
        shall be available for project-based subsidy contracts entered 
        into pursuant to the Second Component:'';
            (8) in the twenty-first proviso, as amended (reordered) 
        above, by striking ``previous two provisos'' and inserting 
        ``Second Component, except for conversion of section 202 
        project rental assistance contracts,'';
            (9) in the twenty-second proviso, as amended (reordered) 
        above, by striking ``three previous provisos'' and inserting 
        ``Second Component, except for conversion of section 202 
        project rental assistance contracts,'';
            (10) by inserting the following proviso before the twenty-
        third proviso, as amended (reordered) above: ``Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may transfer amounts made available 
        under the heading `Housing for the Elderly' to the accounts 
        under the headings `Project-Based Rental Assistance' or 
        `Tenant-Based Rental Assistance' to facilitate any Section 202 
        project rental assistance contract conversions under the Second 
        Component, and any increase in cost for `Project-Based Rental 
        Assistance' or `Tenant-Based Rental Assistance' associated with 
        such conversion shall be equal to amounts so transferred:''; 
        and
            (11) in the twenty-fourth proviso, as amended (reordered) 
        above, by striking ``previous four provisos'' and inserting 
        ``Second Component, as applicable,''.
    Sec. 245.  The Secretary shall establish by notice such 
requirements as may be necessary to implement section 78001 of title 
LXXVIII of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act (Public Law 
114-94), and the notice shall take effect upon issuance:  Provided, 
That the Secretary shall commence rulemaking based on the initial 
notice no later than the expiration of the 6-month period following 
issuance of the notice and the rulemaking shall allow for the 
opportunity for public comment.
    Sec. 246.  For fiscal year 2017 and hereafter, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development may use amounts made available for the 
continuum of care program under the ``Homeless Assistance Grants'' 
heading under this title to renew the grant originally awarded under 
the heading ``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Permanent 
Supportive Housing'' in chapter 6 of title III of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 122 Stat. 2351) in the 
continuum of care program, authorized under subtitle C of title IV of 
the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.). 
Notwithstanding any provision of law, for purposes of grant application 
and renewal, the State of Louisiana may continue to permit a program 
participant to receive or retain tenant-based rental assistance outside 
the continuum of care's geographic area, and the funding of such 
assistance shall not be considered operation of a continuum of care in 
more than one geographic area.
    Sec. 247.  Section 428 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 11386b) is amended by adding at the end of the section, 
subsection (f) to read as follows:
    ``(f) Transition for Reallocated Grant.--
            ``(1) From amounts under this subtitle made available to 
        carry out subtitle B and this subtitle, the Secretary may award 
        one-year transition grants to recipients to transition from one 
        Continuum of Care program component to another.
            ``(2) In order to be eligible to receive a transition 
        grant, the project must have the consent of the Continuum of 
        Care, and meet standards determined by the Secretary.''.
    Sec. 248.  Section 218(g) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12748(g)) shall not apply with 
respect to the right of a jurisdiction to draw funds from its HOME 
Investment Trust Fund that otherwise expired or would expire in 2016, 
2017, 2018, or 2019 under that section.
    Sec. 249.  None of the funds made available under this Act shall be 
used to provide housing assistance benefits for an individual who is 
convicted of--
            (1) aggravated sexual abuse under section 2241 of title 18, 
        United States Code;
            (2) murder under section 1111 of title 18, United States 
        Code; or
            (3) any other Federal or State offense involving--
                    (A) severe forms of trafficking in persons or sex 
                trafficking, as those terms are defined in paragraphs 
                (9) and (10), respectively, of section 103 of the 
                Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
                7102); or
                    (B) child pornography, as defined in section 2256 
                of title 18, United States Code.
    Sec. 250. (a) Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall prepare 
a report, and post the report on the public website of the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development (in this section referred to as the 
``Department''), regarding Real Estate Assessment Center (in this 
section referred to as ``REAC'') inspections of all properties 
assisted, insured, or both, under a program of the Department, which 
shall include--
            (1) the percentage of all inspected properties that 
        received a REAC-inspected score of less than 65 within the last 
        48 months;
            (2) the number of properties in which the most recent REAC-
        inspected score represented a decline relative to the previous 
        REAC score;
            (3) a list of the 10 metropolitan statistical areas with 
        the lowest average REAC-inspected scores for all inspected 
        properties; and
            (4) a list of the 10 States with the lowest average REAC-
        inspected scores for all inspected properties.
    (b) The Comptroller General of the United States shall prepare a 
report, and post the report on the public website of the Government 
Accountability Office, regarding areas in which REAC inspections of all 
properties assisted, insured, or both, under a program of the 
Department should be reformed and improved.
    Sec. 251.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to direct a grantee 
to undertake specific changes to existing zoning laws as part of 
carrying out the final rule entitled ``Affirmatively Furthering Fair 
Housing'' (80 Fed. Reg. 42272 (July 16, 2015)) or the notice entitled 
``Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Assessment Tool'' (79 Fed. Reg. 
57949 (September 26, 2014)).
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Appropriations Act, 2017''.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                              Access Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Access Board, as authorized by 
section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $8,190,000:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may 
be credited to this appropriation funds received for publications and 
training expenses.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission, as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902, $27,490,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                National Railroad Passenger Corporation

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General for the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation to carry out the provisions of 
the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $23,274,000:  Provided, 
That the Inspector General shall have all necessary authority, in 
carrying out the duties specified in the Inspector General Act, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of fraud, 
including false statements to the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any 
person or entity that is subject to regulation by the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation:  Provided further, That the Inspector General 
may enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits, studies, 
analyses, and other services with public agencies and with private 
persons, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that govern the 
obtaining of such services within the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation:  Provided further, That the Inspector General may select, 
appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for 
carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office of 
Inspector General, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that 
govern such selections, appointments, and employment within the 
Corporation:  Provided further, That concurrent with the President's 
budget request for fiscal year 2018, the Inspector General shall submit 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a budget request 
for fiscal year 2018 in similar format and substance to those submitted 
by executive agencies of the Federal Government.

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
$106,000,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses. The amounts made available to 
the National Transportation Safety Board in this Act include amounts 
necessary to make lease payments on an obligation incurred in fiscal 
year 2001 for a capital lease.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $135,000,000, of 
which $5,000,000 shall be for a multi-family rental housing program.

           United States Interagency Council on Homelessness

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference 
rooms, and the employment of experts and consultants under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code) of the United States Interagency 
Council on Homelessness in carrying out the functions pursuant to title 
II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended, 
$3,600,000:  Provided, That title II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11319) is amended by striking ``October 1, 
2017'' in section 209 and inserting ``October 1, 2018'' and in section 
204(a) by striking ``level V'' and inserting ``level IV''.
    Sec. 301.  Not later than 24 months after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness shall 
submit to Congress a report that assesses how Federal housing programs 
and Federal health programs could better collaborate to reduce costs 
and improve health and housing outcomes, in particular for--
            (1) chronically homeless individuals;
            (2) homeless individuals with behavioral health conditions; 
        and
            (3) homeless children, including infants, in families 
        that--
                    (A) receive housing assistance under programs 
                administered by the Federal Government; or
                    (B) could benefit from grant programs administered 
                by the Federal Government.

                      Surface Transportation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,000,000:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$1,250,000 from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
from the general fund shall be reduced by a dollar-for-dollar basis as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2017, to 
result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at no 
more than $35,750,000.

                                TITLE IV

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 401.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 403.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through a procurement contract pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 404. (a) None of the funds made available in the Act may be 
obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice 915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 405.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the agencies or entities funded in this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2017, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees and 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates a new program;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
        the Congress;
            (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
        by either the House or Senate Committees on Appropriations for 
        a different purpose;
            (5) augments existing programs, projects, or activities in 
        excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less;
            (6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by 
        $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a branch, 
        division, office, bureau, board, commission, agency, 
        administration, or department different from the budget 
        justifications submitted to the Committees on Appropriations or 
        the table accompanying the explanatory statement accompanying 
        this Act, whichever is more detailed, unless prior approval is 
        received from the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations:  Provided, That not later than 60 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this 
        Act shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations 
        of the Senate and of the House of Representatives to establish 
        the baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
        authorities for the current fiscal year:  Provided further, 
        That the report shall include--
                    (A) a table for each appropriation with a separate 
                column to display the prior year enacted level, the 
                President's budget request, adjustments made by 
                Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
                appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
                    (B) a delineation in the table for each 
                appropriation and its respective prior year enacted 
                level by object class and program, project, and 
                activity as detailed in the budget appendix for the 
                respective appropriation; and
                    (C) an identification of items of special 
                congressional interest.
    Sec. 406.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2017 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2017 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2018, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized:  Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds:  Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines under section 405 
of this Act.
    Sec. 407.  No funds in this Act may be used to support any Federal, 
State, or local projects that seek to use the power of eminent domain, 
unless eminent domain is employed only for a public use:  Provided, 
That for purposes of this section, public use shall not be construed to 
include economic development that primarily benefits private entities:  
Provided further, That any use of funds for mass transit, railroad, 
airport, seaport or highway projects, as well as utility projects which 
benefit or serve the general public (including energy-related, 
communication-related, water-related and wastewater-related 
infrastructure), other structures designated for use by the general 
public or which have other common-carrier or public-utility functions 
that serve the general public and are subject to regulation and 
oversight by the government, and projects for the removal of an 
immediate threat to public health and safety or brownfields as defined 
in the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization 
Act (Public Law 107-118) shall be considered a public use for purposes 
of eminent domain.
    Sec. 408.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 409.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his or her period of active military or naval service, and 
has within 90 days after his or her release from such service or from 
hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more 
than 1 year, made application for restoration to his or her former 
position and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management 
as still qualified to perform the duties of his or her former position 
and has not been restored thereto.
    Sec. 410.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305, popularly known as the ``Buy 
American Act'').
    Sec. 411.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 8301-8305).
    Sec. 412.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for first-class airline accommodations in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 and 301-10.123 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 413. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to approve a new foreign air carrier permit under sections 41301 
through 41305 of title 49, United States Code, or exemption application 
under section 40109 of that title of an air carrier already holding an 
air operators certificate issued by a country that is party to the 
U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement where such approval 
would contravene United States law or Article 17 bis of the U.S.-E.U.-
Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict or otherwise 
preclude the Secretary of Transportation from granting a foreign air 
carrier permit or an exemption to such an air carrier where such 
authorization is consistent with the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air 
Transport Agreement and United States law.
    Sec. 414.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees 
of a single agency or department of the United States Government, who 
are stationed in the United States, at any single international 
conference unless the relevant Secretary reports to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days in advance that 
such attendance is important to the national interest:  Provided, That 
for purposes of this section the term ``international conference'' 
shall mean a conference occurring outside of the United States attended 
by representatives of the United States Government and of foreign 
governments, international organizations, or nongovernmental 
organizations.
    Sec. 415.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Surface Transportation 
Board to charge or collect any filing fee for rate or practice 
complaints filed with the Board in an amount in excess of the amount 
authorized for district court civil suit filing fees under section 1914 
of title 28, United States Code.
    Sec. 416.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Transportation, the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, or any other Federal agency under this Act to lease 
or purchase new light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or for an 
agency's fleet inventory, except in accordance with Presidential 
Memorandum--Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 417. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to deny an Inspector General funded under this Act timely access 
to any records, documents, or other materials available to the 
department or agency over which that Inspector General has 
responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.), or to prevent or impede that Inspector General's access to such 
records, documents, or other materials, under any provision of law, 
except a provision of law that expressly refers to the Inspector 
General and expressly limits the Inspector General's right of access.
    (b) A department or agency covered by this section shall provide 
its Inspector General with access to all such records, documents, and 
other materials in a timely manner.
    (c) Each Inspector General shall ensure compliance with statutory 
limitations on disclosure relevant to the information provided by the 
establishment over which that Inspector General has responsibilities 
under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (d) Each Inspector General covered by this section shall report to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate within 5 calendar days any failures to comply with this 
requirement.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017''.

DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS, 
                          AND RELATED AGENCIES

     The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for military construction, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Army as currently authorized by 
law, including personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other 
personal services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and 
for construction and operation of facilities in support of the 
functions of the Commander in Chief, $532,359,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps as currently authorized 
by law, including personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command 
and other personal services necessary for the purposes of this 
appropriation, $1,087,572,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized 
by law, $1,579,798,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and 
real property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$2,038,980,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  
Provided, That such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined 
by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations 
of the Department of Defense available for military construction or 
family housing as the Secretary may designate, to be merged with and to 
be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as 
the appropriation or fund to which transferred.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $232,930,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $143,957,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $68,230,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

                  Military Construction, Navy Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $38,597,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $188,950,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized by 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $177,932,000, to remain available until expended.

               Department of Defense Base Closure Account

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account, 
established by section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), $205,237,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $325,995,000.

    Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, 
as authorized by law, $300,915,000.

          Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $274,429,000.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
operation and maintenance, leasing, and minor construction, as 
authorized by law, $59,157,000.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, 
$3,258,000, to remain available until expended, for family housing 
initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United 
States Code, providing alternative means of acquiring and improving 
military family housing and supporting facilities.

                   Family Housing Construction, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $200,735,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, $94,011,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $61,352,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for 
construction, where cost estimates exceed $25,000, to be performed 
within the United States, except Alaska, without the specific approval 
in writing of the Secretary of Defense setting forth the reasons 
therefor.
    Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for construction 
shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for construction may 
be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department 
of Transportation, for the construction of access roads as authorized 
by section 210 of title 23, United States Code, when projects 
authorized therein are certified as important to the national defense 
by the Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to begin construction of new bases in the United States for which 
specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used for purchase of land or land easements in excess of 100 percent of 
the value as determined by the Army Corps of Engineers or the Naval 
Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) where there is a 
determination of value by a Federal court; (2) purchases negotiated by 
the Attorney General or the designee of the Attorney General; (3) where 
the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site preparation; or (3) 
install utilities for any family housing, except housing for which 
funds have been made available in annual Acts making appropriations for 
military construction.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title for minor 
construction may be used to transfer or relocate any activity from one 
base or installation to another, without prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used for the procurement of steel for any construction project or 
activity for which American steel producers, fabricators, and 
manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete for such 
steel procurement.
    Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to initiate a new installation overseas without prior notification 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated for architect and engineer contracts estimated by the 
Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan, 
in any North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded 
to United States firms or United States firms in joint venture with 
host nation firms.
    Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this title for 
military construction in the United States territories and possessions 
in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in countries bordering the 
Arabian Gulf, may be used to award any contract estimated by the 
Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor:  Provided, 
That this section shall not be applicable to contract awards for which 
the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a United States contractor 
exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a foreign 
contractor by greater than 20 percent:  Provided further, That this 
section shall not apply to contract awards for military construction on 
Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid is 
submitted by a Marshallese contractor.
    Sec. 113.  The Secretary of Defense shall inform the appropriate 
committees of both Houses of Congress, including the Committees on 
Appropriations, of plans and scope of any proposed military exercise 
involving United States personnel 30 days prior to its occurring, if 
amounts expended for construction, either temporary or permanent, are 
anticipated to exceed $100,000.
    Sec. 114.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 115.  For military construction or family housing projects 
that are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
made available to a military department or defense agency for the 
construction of military projects may be obligated for a military 
construction project or contract, or for any portion of such a project 
or contract, at any time before the end of the fourth fiscal year after 
the fiscal year for which funds for such project were made available, 
if the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from funds 
available for military construction projects; and (2) do not exceed the 
amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by which the cost 
of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 117.  Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 
and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, such additional amounts as 
may be determined by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to: 
(1) the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from 
amounts appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, 
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the 
same period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund; or 
(2) the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing 
Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for construction of military 
unaccompanied housing in ``Military Construction'' accounts, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund:  Provided, 
That appropriations made available to the Funds shall be available to 
cover the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the 
Department of Defense pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of 
chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, pertaining to alternative 
means of acquiring and improving military family housing, military 
unaccompanied housing, and supporting facilities.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118.  In addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense, amounts may be transferred from the 
Department of Defense Base Closure Account to the fund established by 
section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan 
Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for expenses associated 
with the Homeowners Assistance Program incurred under 42 U.S.C. 
3374(a)(1)(A). Any amounts transferred shall be merged with and be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 119.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this title for operation and maintenance of family housing 
shall be the exclusive source of funds for repair and maintenance of 
all family housing units, including general or flag officer quarters:  
Provided, That not more than $35,000 per unit may be spent annually for 
the maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer quarters 
without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a notification 
provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 and 2883 of 
title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress, except that an after-the-fact notification 
shall be submitted if the limitation is exceeded solely due to costs 
associated with environmental remediation that could not be reasonably 
anticipated at the time of the budget submission:  Provided further,  
That the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) is to report annually 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress all 
operation and maintenance expenditures for each individual general or 
flag officer quarters for the prior fiscal year.
    Sec. 120.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement Account 
established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of title 10, United 
States Code, are appropriated and shall be available until expended for 
the purposes specified in subsection (i)(1) of such section or until 
transferred pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such section.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 121.  During the 5-year period after appropriations available 
in this Act to the Department of Defense for military construction and 
family housing operation and maintenance and construction have expired 
for obligation, upon a determination that such appropriations will not 
be necessary for the liquidation of obligations or for making 
authorized adjustments to such appropriations for obligations incurred 
during the period of availability of such appropriations, unobligated 
balances of such appropriations may be transferred into the 
appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'', 
to be merged with and to be available for the same time period and for 
the same purposes as the appropriation to which transferred.
    Sec. 122.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in an 
account funded under the headings in this title may be transferred 
among projects and activities within the account in accordance with the 
reprogramming guidelines for military construction and family housing 
construction contained in Department of Defense Financial Management 
Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 7, of February 2009, as in 
effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 123.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated or expended for planning and design and construction of 
projects at Arlington National Cemetery.
    Sec. 124.  For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
defense committees'' means the Committees on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 125.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified, to remain available until September 30, 2021:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $40,500,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', 
        $143,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $195,465,000;
            ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', $64,364,000;
            ``Military Construction, Army National Guard'', 
        $16,500,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air National Guard'', $11,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Army Reserve'', $30,000,000;
            ``Family Housing Construction, Army'', $14,400,000:
  Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry out 
construction projects identified in the respective military 
department's unfunded priority list for fiscal year 2017 submitted to 
Congress:  Provided further, That such funds are subject to 
authorization prior to obligation and expenditure of funds to carry out 
construction:  Provided further, That not later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the military department 
concerned, or their designee, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure plan for funds 
provided under this section.

                         (rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 126.  Of the unobligated balances available to the Department 
of Defense from prior appropriation Acts, the following funds are 
hereby rescinded from the following accounts in the amounts specified:
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $30,000,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $22,340,000;
            ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', $132,283,000; and
            ``North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
        Program'', $15,000,000:
  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism or as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Sec. 127.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act 
may be used to consolidate or relocate any element of a United States 
Air Force Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron 
Engineer (RED HORSE) outside of the United States until the Secretary 
of the Air Force (1) completes an analysis and comparison of the cost 
and infrastructure investment required to consolidate or relocate a RED 
HORSE squadron outside of the United States versus within the United 
States; (2) provides to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress (``the Committees'') a report detailing the findings of the 
cost analysis; and (3) certifies in writing to the Committees that the 
preferred site for the consolidation or relocation yields the greatest 
savings for the Air Force:  Provided, That the term ``United States'' 
in this section does not include any territory or possession of the 
United States.
    Sec. 128.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out the closure or transfer of the United States Naval 
Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    Sec. 129. (a) Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
evaluating the extent to which the Department of Defense has developed 
a comprehensive force structure plan, including military construction 
requirements, to meet emerging security threats in Europe.
    (b) The report required under subsection (a) shall include an 
assessment of the extent to which the Department of Defense has--
            (1) identified the near-term and long-term United States 
        military force requirements in Europe in support of the 
        European Reassurance Initiative;
            (2) evaluated the posture, force structure, and military 
        construction options for meeting projected force requirements;
            (3) evaluated the long-term costs associated with the 
        posture, force structure, and military construction 
        requirements; and
            (4) developed a Future Years Defense Program for force 
        structure costs associated with the European Reassurance 
        Initiative.
    (c) The report shall also include any other matters related to 
security threats in Europe that the Comptroller General determines are 
appropriate, and recommendations as warranted for improvements to the 
Department's planning and analysis methodology.
    Sec. 130. (a) Of the amounts appropriated by section 132 of the 
Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2016 (division J of Public Law 114-13; 129 Stat. 
2683), $30,000,000 is hereby rescinded.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 123 of this title, for an additional 
amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Military Construction, Army'' in this 
title, $30,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, is 
provided for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department 
of Transportation, for construction of access roads as authorized by 
section 210 of title 23, United States Code.
    (c) This section shall become effective immediately upon enactment 
of this Act.
    Sec. 131.  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to Congress a 
report that includes--
            (1) a detailed description of the age and condition of the 
        aircraft maintenance hangars of the Army's Combat Aviation 
        Brigade;
            (2) an identification of the most deficient such hangers;
            (3) a plan to modernize or replace such hangars; and
            (4) a description of the resources required to modernize or 
        replace such hangers.
    Sec. 132.  Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study and submit to 
Congress a report on the use of defense access road funding to build 
alternate routes for military equipment traveling to missile launch 
facilities, taking into consideration the location of local 
populations, security risks, safety, and impacts of weather.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized 
by section 107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, 
United States Code; pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as 
authorized by chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code; and burial benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement Program 
for Survivors, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-
service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial 
life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of title IV of 
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et seq.) and 
for other benefits as authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, 
and chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$90,119,449,000, to remain available until expended and to become 
available on October 1, 2017:  Provided, That not to exceed $17,224,000 
of the amount made available for fiscal year 2018 under this heading 
shall be reimbursed to ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', and ``Information Technology Systems'' for necessary 
expenses in implementing the provisions of chapters 51, 53, and 55 of 
title 38, United States Code, the funding source for which is 
specifically provided as the ``Compensation and Pensions'' 
appropriation:  Provided further, That such sums as may be earned on an 
actual qualifying patient basis, shall be reimbursed to ``Medical Care 
Collections Fund'' to augment the funding of individual medical 
facilities for nursing home care provided to pensioners as authorized.

                         readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 
36, 39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$13,708,648,000, to remain available until expended and to become 
available on October 1, 2017:  Provided, That expenses for 
rehabilitation program services and assistance which the Secretary is 
authorized to provide under subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, 
United States Code, other than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) 
of that subsection, shall be charged to this account.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by chapters 19 and 21, 
title 38, United States Code, $124,504,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $107,899,000 shall become available on October 1, 
2017.

                 veterans housing benefit program fund

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by subchapters I 
through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That, during fiscal year 2017, within the resources 
available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for direct loans 
are authorized for specially adapted housing loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $198,856,000.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $36,000, as authorized by chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$2,517,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $389,000, which may be paid to the appropriation 
for ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, United States 
Code, $1,163,000.

      general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration

    For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General Services Administration 
for security guard services, and reimbursement of the Department of 
Defense for the cost of overseas employee mail, $2,856,160,000:  
Provided, That expenses for services and assistance authorized under 
paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of section 3104(a) of title 38, 
United States Code, that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines 
are necessary to enable entitled veterans: (1) to the maximum extent 
feasible, to become employable and to obtain and maintain suitable 
employment; or (2) to achieve maximum independence in daily living, 
shall be charged to this account:  Provided further, That, of the funds 
made available under this heading, not to exceed 5 percent shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

    For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by law, 
inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and veterans described in section 
1705(a) of title 38, United States Code, including care and treatment 
in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department, and 
including medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food 
services, and salaries and expenses of healthcare employees hired under 
title 38, United States Code, aid to State homes as authorized by 
section 1741 of title 38, United States Code, assistance and support 
services for caregivers as authorized by section 1720G of title 38, 
United States Code, loan repayments authorized by section 604 of the 
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 
111-163; 124 Stat. 1174; 38 U.S.C. 7681 note), and hospital care and 
medical services authorized by section 1787 of title 38, United States 
Code; $1,078,993,000, which shall be in addition to funds previously 
appropriated under this heading that became available on October 1, 
2016; and, in addition, $44,886,554,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
become available on October 1, 2017, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided, That, of the amount made available on 
October 1, 2017, under this heading, $1,400,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall establish a priority for the provision of medical 
treatment for veterans who have service-connected disabilities, lower 
income, or have special needs:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
give priority funding for the provision of basic medical benefits to 
veterans in enrollment priority groups 1 through 6:  Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs may authorize the dispensing of prescription drugs 
from Veterans Health Administration facilities to enrolled veterans 
with privately written prescriptions based on requirements established 
by the Secretary:  Provided further, That the implementation of the 
program described in the previous proviso shall incur no additional 
cost to the Department of Veterans Affairs:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that sufficient amounts 
appropriated under this heading for medical supplies and equipment are 
available for the acquisition of prosthetics designed specifically for 
female veterans:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall provide access to therapeutic listening devices to 
veterans struggling with mental health related problems, substance 
abuse, or traumatic brain injury.

                         medical community care

    For necessary expenses for furnishing health care to individuals 
pursuant to chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, at non-
Department facilities, $7,246,181,000, plus reimbursements, of which 
$2,000,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020; and, in 
addition, $9,409,118,000 shall become available on October 1, 2017, and 
shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of the 
amount made available on October 1, 2017, $1,500,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

                     medical support and compliance

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
capital policy activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the Department as 
authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, and the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.), 
$6,654,480,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 
1, 2017, and shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That, of the amount made available on October 1, 2017, under 
this heading, $100,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2019.

                           medical facilities

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other necessary 
facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; for administrative 
expenses in support of planning, design, project management, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction, and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; 
for oversight, engineering, and architectural activities not charged to 
project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, or providing 
facilities in the several hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of 
the Department, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by 
the hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; for leases 
of facilities; and for laundry services; $495,100,000, which shall be 
in addition to funds previously appropriated under this heading that 
became available on October 1, 2016; and, in addition, $5,434,880,000, 
plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 1, 2017, and 
shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That, of 
the amount made available on October 1, 2017, under this heading, 
$250,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by chapter 73 of 
title 38, United States Code, $675,366,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that sufficient amounts 
appropriated under this heading are available for prosthetic research 
specifically for female veterans, and for toxic exposure research.

                    National Cemetery Administration

    For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery Administration for 
operations and maintenance, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of one passenger motor vehicle for use in cemeterial 
operations; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, alteration or 
improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the National 
Cemetery Administration, $286,193,000, of which not to exceed 10 
percent shall remain available until September 30, 2018.

                      Departmental Administration

                         general administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including administrative expenses 
in support of Department-wide capital planning, management and policy 
activities, uniforms, or allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, $417,959,000, of which not to exceed 5 percent 
shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That funds 
provided under this heading may be transferred to ``General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

                       board of veterans appeals

    For necessary operating expenses of the Board of Veterans Appeals, 
$156,096,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent shall remain available 
until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That up to $2,500,000 may be 
available to facilitate the furnishing of legal and other assistance, 
without charge, to veterans and other individuals who are unable to 
afford the cost of legal representation in connection with a decision 
by the Board of Veterans Appeals under chapter 71 of title 38, United 
States Code, in accordance with the process and reporting procedures 
set forth in Public Law 102-229 under the heading ``Salaries and 
Expenses'' under the heading ``Court of Veterans Appeals'':  Provided 
further, That the Board of Veterans Appeals submits to the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a certification that there 
is a substantial unmet need for pro bono representation before the 
Board of Veterans Appeals prior to expending funds for this purpose.

                     information technology systems

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for information technology systems and 
telecommunications support, including developmental information systems 
and operational information systems; for pay and associated costs; and 
for the capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, 
including management and related contractual costs of said 
acquisitions, including contractual costs associated with operations 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$4,278,259,000, plus reimbursements:  Provided, That $1,272,548,000 
shall be for pay and associated costs, of which not to exceed 
$37,100,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided 
further, That $2,534,442,000 shall be for operations and maintenance, 
of which not to exceed $180,200,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided further, That $471,269,000 shall be for 
information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement, and shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided further, That amounts made available for information 
technology systems development, modernization, and enhancement may not 
be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or the 
Chief Information Officer of the Department of Veterans Affairs submits 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
certification of the amounts, in parts or in full, to be obligated and 
expended for each development project:  Provided further, That amounts 
made available for salaries and expenses, operations and maintenance, 
and information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement may be transferred among the three subaccounts after the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and an approval is issued:  Provided further, That amounts 
made available for the ``Information Technology Systems'' account for 
development, modernization, and enhancement may be transferred among 
projects or to newly defined projects:  Provided further, That no 
project may be increased or decreased by more than $1,000,000 of cost 
prior to submitting a request to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress to make the transfer and an approval is issued, 
or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed:  Provided 
further, That funds under this heading may be used by the Interagency 
Program Office through the Department of Veterans Affairs to define 
data standards, code sets, and value sets used to enable 
interoperability:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, $300,000 shall be available to carry out a matching 
program with the Department of Education to identify veterans who are 
unemployable due to a service-connected disability and who are also 
borrowers of Federal student loans in order to streamline and expedite 
the process through which such veterans may discharge their Federal 
student loans. Provided further, That of the funds made available for 
information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement for VistA Evolution or any successor program, not more than 
25 percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs:
            (1) Certifies in writing to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of both Houses of Congress that the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs has met the requirements contained in the 
        National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2014 (Public 
        Law 113-66) which require that electronic health record systems 
        of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs have reached interoperability, comply with national 
        standards and architectural requirements identified by the DoD/
        VA Interagency Program Office in collaboration with the Office 
        of National Coordinator for Health Information Technology;
            (2) submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
        Houses of Congress the VistA Evolution Business Case and 
        supporting documents regarding continuation of VistA Evolution 
        or alternatives to VistA Evolution, including an analysis of 
        necessary or desired capabilities, technical and security 
        requirements, the plan for modernizing the platform framework, 
        and all associated costs;
            (3) submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
        Houses of Congress, and such Committees approve, the following: 
        a report that describes a strategic plan for VistA Evolution, 
        or any successor program, and the associated implementation 
        plan including metrics and timelines; a master schedule and 
        lifecycle cost estimate for VistA Evolution or any successor; 
        and an implementation plan for the transition from the Project 
        Management Accountability System to a new project delivery 
        framework, the Veteran-focused Integration Process, that 
        includes the methodology by which projects will be tracked, 
        progress measured, and deliverables evaluated;
            (4) submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
        Houses of Congress a report outlining the strategic plan to 
        reach interoperability with private sector healthcare 
        providers, the timeline for reaching ``meaningful use'' as 
        defined by the Office of National Coordinator for Health 
        Information Technology for each data domain covered under the 
        VistA Evolution program, and the extent to which the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs leverages the State Health Information 
        Exchanges to share health data with private sector providers; 
        and
            (5) submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
        Houses of Congress, and such Committees approve, the following: 
        a report that describes the extent to which VistA Evolution, or 
        any successor program, maximizes the use of commercially 
        available software used by DoD and the private sector, requires 
        an open architecture that leverages best practices and rapidly 
        adapts to technologies produced by the private sector, enhances 
        full interoperability between the VA and DoD and between VA and 
        the private sector, and ensures the security of personally 
        identifiable information of veterans and beneficiaries:
  Provided further, That the funds made available under this heading 
for information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement, shall be for the projects, and in the amounts, specified 
under this heading in the report accompanying this Act.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, to 
include information technology, in carrying out the provisions of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $160,106,000, of which 
not to exceed 10 percent shall remain available until September 30, 
2018.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
architectural and engineering services, construction management 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
more than the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, 
United States Code, or where funds for a project were made available in 
a previous major project appropriation, $528,110,000, of which 
$448,110,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021, and of 
which $80,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That except for advance planning activities, including needs 
assessments which may or may not lead to capital investments, and other 
capital asset management related activities, including portfolio 
development and management activities, and investment strategy studies 
funded through the advance planning fund and the planning and design 
activities funded through the design fund, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and salaries and 
associated costs of the resident engineers who oversee those capital 
investments funded through this account and contracting officers who 
manage specific major construction projects, and funds provided for the 
purchase, security, and maintenance of land for the National Cemetery 
Administration through the land acquisition line item, none of the 
funds made available under this heading shall be used for any project 
that has not been notified to Congress through the budgetary process or 
that has not been approved by the Congress through statute, joint 
resolution, or in the explanatory statement accompanying such Act and 
presented to the President at the time of enrollment:  Provided 
further, That funds made available under this heading for fiscal year 
2017, for each approved project shall be obligated: (1) by the awarding 
of a construction documents contract by September 30, 2017; and (2) by 
the awarding of a construction contract by September 30, 2018:  
Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall promptly 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
written report on any approved major construction project for which 
obligations are not incurred within the time limitations established 
above:  Provided further, That, of the amount made available under this 
heading, $222,620,000 for Veterans Health Administration major 
construction projects shall not be available until the Department of 
Veterans Affairs--
            (1) enters into an agreement with an appropriate non-
        Department of Veterans Affairs Federal entity to serve as the 
        design and/or construction agent for any Veterans Health 
        Administration major construction project with a Total 
        Estimated Cost of $100,000,000 or above by providing full 
        project management services, including management of the 
        project design, acquisition, construction, and contract 
        changes, consistent with section 502 of Public Law 114-58; and
            (2) certifies in writing that such an agreement is executed 
        and intended to minimize or prevent subsequent major 
        construction project cost overruns and provides a copy of the 
        agreement entered into and any required supplementary 
        information to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
        of Congress.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including planning and 
assessments of needs which may lead to capital investments, 
architectural and engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period 
services costs associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and storm 
drainage system construction costs, and site acquisition, or for any of 
the purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of 
title 38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, where the 
estimated cost of a project is equal to or less than the amount set 
forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States Code, 
$372,069,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, along with 
unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, Minor Projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project where 
the estimated cost is equal to or less than the amount set forth in 
such section:  Provided, That funds made available under this heading 
shall be for: (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical facilities under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department which are necessary 
because of loss or damage caused by any natural disaster or 
catastrophe; and (2) temporary measures necessary to prevent or to 
minimize further loss by such causes.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify, or alter 
existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary facilities in State 
homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by sections 8131 
through 8137 of title 38, United States Code, $90,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             grants for construction of veterans cemeteries

    For grants to assist States and tribal organizations in 
establishing, expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as authorized 
by section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, $45,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2017 for 
``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' may be transferred as necessary 
to any other of the mentioned appropriations:  Provided, That, before a 
transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and such Committees issue 
an approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2017, in this or any other Act, under the 
``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'' accounts may be transferred 
among the accounts:  Provided, That any transfers between the ``Medical 
Services'' and ``Medical Support and Compliance'' accounts of 1 percent 
or less of the total amount appropriated to the account in this or any 
other Act may take place subject to notification from the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the amount and purpose of the transfer:  Provided further, 
That any transfers between the ``Medical Services'' and ``Medical 
Support and Compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 percent, or exceeding 
the cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may take place only after 
the Secretary requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval 
is issued:  Provided further, That any transfers to or from the 
``Medical Facilities'' account may take place only after the Secretary 
requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.
    Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for services authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; lease of 
a facility or land or both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
appropriations for ``Construction, Major Projects'', and 
``Construction, Minor Projects'') shall be available for the purchase 
of any site for or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 205.  No appropriations in this title shall be available for 
hospitalization or examination of any persons (except beneficiaries 
entitled to such hospitalization or examination under the laws 
providing such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such 
treatment under sections 7901 through 7904 of title 5, United States 
Code, or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement of the 
cost of such hospitalization or examination is made to the ``Medical 
Services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for 
``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' shall be available for payment 
of prior year accrued obligations required to be recorded by law 
against the corresponding prior year accounts within the last quarter 
of fiscal year 2016.
    Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be 
available to pay prior year obligations of corresponding prior year 
appropriations accounts resulting from sections 3328(a), 3334, and 
3712(a) of title 31, United States Code, except that if such 
obligations are from trust fund accounts they shall be payable only 
from ``Compensation and Pensions''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from the 
National Service Life Insurance Fund under section 1920 of title 38, 
United States Code, the Veterans' Special Life Insurance Fund under 
section 1923 of title 38, United States Code, and the United States 
Government Life Insurance Fund under section 1955 of title 38, United 
States Code, reimburse the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans 
Benefits Administration'' and ``Information Technology Systems'' 
accounts for the cost of administration of the insurance programs 
financed through those accounts:  Provided, That reimbursement shall be 
made only from the surplus earnings accumulated in such an insurance 
program during fiscal year 2017 that are available for dividends in 
that program after claims have been paid and actuarially determined 
reserves have been set aside:  Provided further, That if the cost of 
administration of such an insurance program exceeds the amount of 
surplus earnings accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be 
made only to the extent of such surplus earnings:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for 
fiscal year 2017 which is properly allocable to the provision of each 
such insurance program and to the provision of any total disability 
income insurance included in that insurance program.
    Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease proceeds to 
reimburse an account for expenses incurred by that account during a 
prior fiscal year for providing enhanced-use lease services, may be 
obligated during the fiscal year in which the proceeds are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for salaries and 
other administrative expenses shall also be available to reimburse the 
Office of Resolution Management of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
and the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication 
under section 319 of title 38, United States Code, for all services 
provided at rates which will recover actual costs but not to exceed 
$47,668,000 for the Office of Resolution Management and $3,532,000 for 
the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication:  
Provided, That payments may be made in advance for services to be 
furnished based on estimated costs:  Provided further, That amounts 
received shall be credited to the ``General Administration'' and 
``Information Technology Systems'' accounts for use by the office that 
provided the service.
    Sec. 211.  None of the funds in this or any other Act may be used 
to close Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals, domiciliaries, 
or clinics, conduct an environmental assessment, or to diminish 
healthcare services at existing Veterans Health Administration medical 
facilities located in Veterans Integrated Service Network 23 as part of 
a planned realignment of VA services until the Secretary provides to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report 
including the following elements:
            (1) a national realignment strategy that includes a 
        detailed description of realignment plans within each Veterans 
        Integrated Service Network (VISN), including an updated Long 
        Range Capital Plan to implement realignment requirements;
            (2) an explanation of the process by which those plans were 
        developed and coordinated within each VISN;
            (3) a cost vs. benefit analysis of each planned 
        realignment, including the cost of replacing Veterans Health 
        Administration services with contract care or other outsourced 
        services;
            (4) an analysis of how any such planned realignment of 
        services will impact access to care for veterans living in 
        rural or highly rural areas, including travel distances and 
        transportation costs to access a VA medical facility and 
        availability of local specialty and primary care;
            (5) an inventory of VA buildings with historic designation 
        and the methodology used to determine the buildings' condition 
        and utilization;
            (6) a description of how any realignment will be consistent 
        with requirements under the National Historic Preservation Act; 
        and
            (7) consideration given for reuse of historic buildings 
        within newly identified realignment requirements:  Provided, 
        That, this provision shall not apply to capital projects in 
        VISN 23, or any other VISN, which have been authorized or 
        approved by Congress.
    Sec. 212.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall be 
available for hospital care, nursing home care, or medical services 
provided to any person under chapter 17 of title 38, United States 
Code, for a non-service-connected disability described in section 
1729(a)(2) of such title, unless that person has disclosed to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may 
require, current, accurate third-party reimbursement information for 
purposes of section 1729 of such title:  Provided, That the Secretary 
may recover, in the same manner as any other debt due the United 
States, the reasonable charges for such care or services from any 
person who does not make such disclosure as required:  Provided 
further, That any amounts so recovered for care or services provided in 
a prior fiscal year may be obligated by the Secretary during the fiscal 
year in which amounts are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 213.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, proceeds or 
revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing activities (including 
disposal) may be deposited into the ``Construction, Major Projects'' 
and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts and be used for 
construction (including site acquisition and disposition), alterations, 
and improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such sums as realized 
are in addition to the amount provided for in ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects''.
    Sec. 214.  Amounts made available under ``Medical Services'' are 
available--
            (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
        equipment (including rehabilitative equipment for veterans 
        entitled to a prosthetic appliance under chapter 17 of title 
        38, United States Code, which may include recreational sports 
        equipment that provides an adaption or accommodation for the 
        veteran, regardless of whether such equipment is intentionally 
        designed to be adaptive equipment, such as hand cycles, 
        recumbent bicycles, medically adapted upright bicycles, and 
        upright bicycles); and
            (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and other 
        expenses incidental to funerals and burials for beneficiaries 
        receiving care in the Department.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 215.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, may be transferred to the ``Medical Services'' and ``Medical 
Community Care'' accounts, to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 216.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter into 
agreements with Federally Qualified Health Centers in the State of 
Alaska and Indian tribes and tribal organizations which are party to 
the Alaska Native Health Compact with the Indian Health Service, to 
provide healthcare, including behavioral health and dental care, to 
veterans in rural Alaska. The Secretary shall require participating 
veterans and facilities to comply with all appropriate rules and 
regulations, as established by the Secretary. The term ``rural Alaska'' 
shall mean those lands which are not within the boundaries of the 
municipality of Anchorage or the Fairbanks North Star Borough.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 217.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 8118 of title 
38, United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts, to remain 
available until expended for the purposes of these accounts.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 218.  Of the amounts appropriated in title II of division J of 
Public Law 114-113 under the heading ``Medical Services'' which become 
available on October 1, 2016, $7,246,181,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 219.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal 
quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report on the 
financial status of the Department of Veterans Affairs for the 
preceding quarter:  Provided, That, at a minimum, the report shall 
include the direction contained in the explanatory statement described 
in section 4 in the matter preceding division A of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2016 Public Law 114-113 in title II of Division J 
of the consolidated Act in the paragraph entitled ``Quarterly Report'', 
under the heading ``General Administration''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 220.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', 
``Medical Facilities'', ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', ``General Administration'', and ``National Cemetery 
Administration'' accounts for fiscal year 2017 may be transferred to or 
from the ``Information Technology Systems'' account:  Provided, That 
such transfers may not result in a more than 10 percent aggregate 
increase in the total amount made available by this Act for the 
``Information Technology Systems'' account:  Provided further, That, 
before a transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.
    Sec. 221.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs may be used in a manner that is inconsistent with: (1) section 
842 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the 
Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2506); or (2) 
section 8110(a)(5) of title 38, United States Code.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 222.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2017 for ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Support and Compliance'', ``Medical Facilities'', 
``Construction, Minor Projects'', and ``Information Technology 
Systems'', up to $274,731,000, plus reimbursements, may be transferred 
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be used for operation of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, That 
additional funds may be transferred from accounts designated in this 
section to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon written notification 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That 
section 223 of title II of division J of Public Law 114-113 is 
repealed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 223.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs which become available on October 1, 2017, for 
``Medical Services'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical 
Facilities'', up to $280,802,000, plus reimbursements, may be 
transferred to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 
1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
(Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be used for operation of 
the facilities designated as combined Federal medical facilities as 
described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
4500):  Provided, That additional funds may be transferred from 
accounts designated in this section to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon 
written notification by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 224.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, for healthcare provided at facilities designated as combined 
Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for transfer 
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571); and (2) for operations of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 225.  Of the amounts available in this title for ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical 
Facilities'', a minimum of $15,000,000 shall be transferred to the DOD-
VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, as authorized by section 8111(d) 
of title 38, United States Code, to remain available until expended, 
for any purpose authorized by section 8111 of title 38, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 226.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, in this or any other Act, may be used to replace the 
current system by which the Veterans Integrated Service Networks select 
and contract for diabetes monitoring supplies and equipment.
    Sec. 227.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of all bid 
savings in a major construction project that total at least $5,000,000, 
or 5 percent of the programmed amount of the project, whichever is 
less:  Provided, That such notification shall occur within 14 days of a 
contract identifying the programmed amount:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress 14 days prior to the obligation of such bid savings and 
shall describe the anticipated use of such savings.
    Sec. 228.  None of the funds made available for ``Construction, 
Major Projects'' may be used for a project in excess of the scope 
specified for that project in the original justification data provided 
to the Congress as part of the request for appropriations unless the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs receives approval from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 229.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a quarterly 
report that contains the following information from each Veterans 
Benefits Administration Regional Office: (1) the average time to 
complete a disability compensation claim; (2) the number of claims 
pending more than 125 days, disaggregated by initial and supplemental 
claims; (3) error rates; (4) the number of claims personnel; (5) any 
corrective action taken within the quarter to address poor performance; 
(6) training programs undertaken; (7) the number and results of Quality 
Review Team audits; (8) the number of claims completed by each Regional 
Office based on the Regional Office being the station of jurisdiction; 
and (9) the number of claims completed by each Regional Office based on 
the Regional Office being the station of origin:  Provided, That each 
quarterly report shall be submitted no later than 30 days after the end 
of the respective quarter.
    Sec. 230.  Of the funds provided to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2017 for ``Medical Support and Compliance'' a 
maximum of $40,000,000 may be obligated from the ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'' account for the VistA Evolution and electronic health 
record interoperability projects:  Provided, That funds in addition to 
these amounts may be obligated for the VistA Evolution and electronic 
health record interoperability projects upon written notification by 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 231.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide written 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress 15 days prior to organizational changes which result in the 
transfer of 25 or more full-time equivalents from one organizational 
unit of the Department of Veterans Affairs to another.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 232.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2017, under the ``Board of Veterans Appeals'' 
and the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'' accounts may be transferred between such accounts:  
Provided, That before a transfer may take place, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and receive 
approval of that request.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 233.  Of the unobligated balances available within the ``DOD-
VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund'', $52,000,000 are hereby 
rescinded.
    Sec. 234.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not reprogram 
funds among major construction projects or programs if such instance of 
reprogramming will exceed $5,000,000, unless such reprogramming is 
approved by the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.
    Sec. 235.  None of the funds appropriated in this or prior 
appropriations Acts or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs may be used to transfer any amounts from the Filipino 
Veterans Equity Compensation Fund to any other account within the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 236.  Paragraph (3) of section 403(a) of the Veterans' Mental 
Health and Other Care Improvements Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-387; 38 
U.S.C. 1703 note) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) Duration.--A veteran may receive health services 
        under this section during the period beginning on the date 
        specified in paragraph (2) and ending on September 30, 2018.''.
    Sec. 237. (a) Section 1722A(a) of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Paragraph (1) does not apply to opioid antagonists 
        furnished under this chapter to a veteran who is at high risk 
        for overdose of a specific medication or substance in order to 
        reverse the effect of such an overdose.''.
    (b) Section 1710(g)(3) of such title is amended--
            (1) by striking ``with respect to home health services'' 
        and inserting ``with respect to the following:''
                    ``(A) Home health services''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Education on the use of opioid antagonists to 
                reverse the effects of overdoses of specific 
                medications or substances.''.
    Sec. 238.  Section 312 of title 38, United States Code, is amended 
in subsection(c)(1) by striking the phrase ``that makes a 
recommendation or otherwise suggests corrective action,''.
    Sec. 239.  The Department of Veterans Affairs is authorized to 
administer financial assistance grants and enter into cooperative 
agreements with organizations, utilizing a competitive selection 
process, to train and employ homeless and at-risk veterans in natural 
resource conservation management.
    Sec. 240.  The Department of Veterans Affairs shall seek to enter 
into an agreement with the National Academy of Medicine for an 
assessment on research relating to the descendants of individuals with 
toxic exposure and to evaluate the feasibility of a research entity or 
entities to conduct research relating to health conditions of 
descendants of veterans with toxic exposure while serving in the Armed 
Forces.
    Sec. 241.  Of the funds provided to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for each of fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year 2018 for ``Medical 
Services'', $3,000,000 in each year for carrying out and expanding to 
each medical center of the Department the child care program authorized 
by section 205 of Public Law 111-163, notwithstanding subsection (e) of 
such section.
    Sec. 242.  Section 5701(l) of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall''.
    Sec. 243. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, as part of 
the hiring process for each health care provider considered for a 
position at the Department of Veterans Affairs after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, require from the medical board of each State in 
which the health care provider holds or has held a medical license--
            (1) information on any violation of the requirements of the 
        medical license of the health care provider; and
            (2) information on whether the health care provider has 
        entered into any settlement agreement for a disciplinary charge 
        relating to the practice of medicine by the health care 
        provider.
    (b) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to carry out this 
section.
    Sec. 244. (a) Notwithstanding section 552a of title 5, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, with respect to 
each health care provider of the Department of Veterans Affairs that 
has violated a requirement of their medical license, provide to the 
medical board of each State in which the health care provider is 
licensed or practices all relevant information contained in the State 
Licensing Board Reporting File or any successor file of the Department 
with respect to such violation.
    (b) The Secretary shall provide the information required in 
subsection (a) to a medical board described in such subsection 
notwithstanding that such board may not have formally requested such 
information from the Department.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 245.  Upon determination by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
that such action is necessary for providing health care, benefits and 
other services, the Secretary may transfer amounts made available to 
the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2017 by this Act 
between any discretionary appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2017: 
 Provided, That amounts so transferred shall be merged with the account 
to which transferred:  Provided further, That the total amount that the 
Secretary may transfer under this section may not exceed two percent of 
the total discretionary appropriations made available to the Department 
for fiscal year 2017 by this Act:  Provided further, That a transfer of 
funds between the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', 
``Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'' accounts 
shall not be counted toward the two percent limitation in the previous 
proviso:  Provided further, That the transfer authority provided by 
this section may be exercised only to support activities in an 
appropriations account that have a higher priority than those 
undertaken in the appropriations account from which budget authority is 
transferred, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, That 
such transfer authority may not be used to provide budget authority for 
an activity that the Secretary lacks the authority to carry out:  
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this section 
is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law:  
Provided further, That before a transfer may take place, the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and 
receive approval of that request.

                   VA Patient Protection Act of 2016

    Sec. 246. (a) Procedure and Administration.--
    (1) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subchapter:

               ``SUBCHAPTER II--WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINTS

``Sec. 731. Whistleblower complaint defined
    ``In this subchapter, the term `whistleblower complaint' means a 
complaint by an employee of the Department disclosing, or assisting 
another employee to disclose, a potential violation of any law, rule, 
or regulation, or gross mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of 
authority, or substantial and specific danger to public health and 
safety.
``Sec. 732. Treatment of whistleblower complaints
    ``(a) Filing.--(1) In addition to any other method established by 
law in which an employee may file a whistleblower complaint, an 
employee of the Department may file a whistleblower complaint in 
accordance with subsection (g) with a supervisor of the employee.
    ``(2) Except as provided by subsection (d)(1), in making a 
whistleblower complaint under paragraph (1), an employee shall file the 
initial complaint with the immediate supervisor of the employee.
    ``(b) Notification.--(1)(A) Not later than four business days after 
the date on which a supervisor receives a whistleblower complaint by an 
employee under this section, the supervisor shall notify, in writing, 
the employee of whether the supervisor determines that there is a 
reasonable likelihood that the complaint discloses a violation of any 
law, rule, or regulation, or gross mismanagement, gross waste of funds, 
abuse of authority, or substantial and specific danger to public health 
and safety.
    ``(B) The supervisor shall retain written documentation regarding 
the whistleblower complaint and shall submit to the next-level 
supervisor and the central whistleblower office described in subsection 
(h) a written report on the complaint.
    ``(2)(A) On a monthly basis, the supervisor shall submit to the 
appropriate director or other official who is superior to the 
supervisor a written report that includes the number of whistleblower 
complaints received by the supervisor under this section during the 
month covered by the report, the disposition of such complaints, and 
any actions taken because of such complaints pursuant to subsection 
(c).
    ``(B) In the case in which such a director or official carries out 
this paragraph, the director or official shall submit such monthly 
report to the supervisor of the director or official and to the central 
whistleblower office described in subsection (h).
    ``(c) Positive Determination.--If a supervisor makes a positive 
determination under subsection (b)(1) regarding a whistleblower 
complaint of an employee, the supervisor shall include in the 
notification to the employee under such subsection the specific actions 
that the supervisor will take to address the complaint.
    ``(d) Filing Complaint With Next-Level Supervisors.--(1) If any 
circumstance described in paragraph (3) is met, an employee may file a 
whistleblower complaint in accordance with subsection (g) with the 
next-level supervisor who shall treat such complaint in accordance with 
this section.
    ``(2) An employee may file a whistleblower complaint with the 
Secretary if the employee has filed the whistleblower complaint to each 
level of supervisors between the employee and the Secretary in 
accordance with paragraph (1).
    ``(3) A circumstance described in this paragraph is any of the 
following circumstances:
            ``(A) A supervisor does not make a timely determination 
        under subsection (b)(1) regarding a whistleblower complaint.
            ``(B) The employee who made a whistleblower complaint 
        determines that the supervisor did not adequately address the 
        complaint pursuant to subsection (c).
            ``(C) The immediate supervisor of the employee is the basis 
        of the whistleblower complaint.
    ``(e) Transfer of Employee Who Files Whistleblower Complaint.--If a 
supervisor makes a positive determination under subsection (b)(1) 
regarding a whistleblower complaint filed by an employee, the Secretary 
shall--
            ``(1) inform the employee of the ability to volunteer for a 
        transfer in accordance with section 3352 of title 5; and
            ``(2) give preference to the employee for such a transfer 
        in accordance with such section.
    ``(f) Prohibition on Exemption.--The Secretary may not exempt any 
employee of the Department from being covered by this section.
    ``(g) Whistleblower Complaint Form.--(1) A whistleblower complaint 
filed by an employee under subsection (a) or (d) shall consist of the 
form described in paragraph (2) and any supporting materials or 
documentation the employee determines necessary.
    ``(2) The form described in this paragraph is a form developed by 
the Secretary, in consultation with the Special Counsel, that includes 
the following:
            ``(A) An explanation of the purpose of the whistleblower 
        complaint form.
            ``(B) Instructions for filing a whistleblower complaint as 
        described in this section.
            ``(C) An explanation that filing a whistleblower complaint 
        under this section does not preclude the employee from any 
        other method established by law in which an employee may file a 
        whistleblower complaint.
            ``(D) A statement directing the employee to information 
        accessible on the Internet website of the Department as 
        described in section 735(d).
            ``(E) Fields for the employee to provide--
                    ``(i) the date that the form is submitted;
                    ``(ii) the name of the employee;
                    ``(iii) the contact information of the employee;
                    ``(iv) a summary of the whistleblower complaint 
                (including the option to append supporting documents 
                pursuant to paragraph (1)); and
                    ``(v) proposed solutions to the complaint.
            ``(F) Any other information or fields that the Secretary 
        determines appropriate.
    ``(3) The Secretary, in consultation with the Special Counsel, 
shall develop the form described in paragraph (2) by not later than 60 
days after the date of the enactment of this section.
    ``(h) Central Whistleblower Office.--(1) The Secretary shall ensure 
that the central whistleblower office--
            ``(A) is not an element of the Office of the General 
        Counsel;
            ``(B) is not headed by an official who reports to the 
        General Counsel;
            ``(C) does not provide, or receive from, the General 
        Counsel any information regarding a whistleblower complaint 
        except pursuant to an action regarding the complaint before an 
        administrative body or court; and
            ``(D) does not provide advice to the General Counsel.
    ``(2) The central whistleblower office shall be responsible for 
investigating all whistleblower complaints of the Department, 
regardless of whether such complaints are made by or against an 
employee who is not a member of the Senior Executive Service.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall ensure that the central whistleblower 
office maintains a toll-free hotline to anonymously receive 
whistleblower complaints.
    ``(4) The Secretary shall ensure that the central whistleblower 
office has such staff and resources as the Secretary considers 
necessary to carry out the functions of the central whistleblower 
office.
    ``(5) In this subsection, the term `central whistleblower office' 
means the Office of Accountability Review or a successor office that is 
established or designated by the Secretary to investigate whistleblower 
complaints filed under this section or any other method established by 
law.
``Sec. 733. Adverse actions against supervisory employees who commit 
              prohibited personnel actions relating to whistleblower 
              complaints
    ``(a) In General.--(1) In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
Secretary shall carry out the following adverse actions against 
supervisory employees (as defined in section 7103(a) of title 5) whom 
the Secretary, an administrative judge, the Merit Systems Protection 
Board, the Office of Special Counsel, an adjudicating body provided 
under a union contract, a Federal judge, or the Inspector General of 
the Department determines committed a prohibited personnel action 
described in subsection (c):
            ``(A) With respect to the first offense, an adverse action 
        that is not less than a 12-day suspension and not more than 
        removal.
            ``(B) With respect to the second offense, removal.
    ``(2)(A) An employee against whom an adverse action under paragraph 
(1) is proposed is entitled to written notice.
    ``(B)(i) An employee who is notified under subparagraph (A) of 
being the subject of a proposed adverse action under paragraph (1) is 
entitled to 14 days following such notification to answer and furnish 
evidence in support of the answer.
    ``(ii) If the employee does not furnish any such evidence as 
described in clause (i) or if the Secretary determines that such 
evidence is not sufficient to reverse the determination to propose the 
adverse action, the Secretary shall carry out the adverse action 
following such 14-day period.
    ``(C) Paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) of section 7513 of 
title 5, subsection (c) of such section, paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
subsection (b) of section 7543 of such title, and subsection (c) of 
such section shall not apply with respect to an adverse action carried 
out under paragraph (1).
    ``(b) Limitation on Other Adverse Actions.--With respect to a 
prohibited personnel action described in subsection (c), if the 
Secretary carries out an adverse action against a supervisory employee, 
the Secretary may carry out an additional adverse action under this 
section based on the same prohibited personnel action if the total 
severity of the adverse actions do not exceed the level specified in 
subsection (a).
    ``(c) Prohibited Personnel Action Described.--A prohibited 
personnel action described in this subsection is any of the following 
actions:
            ``(1) Taking or failing to take a personnel action in 
        violation of section 2302 of title 5 against an employee 
        relating to the employee--
                    ``(A) filing a whistleblower complaint in 
                accordance with section 732 of this title;
                    ``(B) filing a whistleblower complaint with the 
                Inspector General of the Department, the Special 
                Counsel, or Congress;
                    ``(C) providing information or participating as a 
                witness in an investigation of a whistleblower 
                complaint in accordance with section 732 or with the 
                Inspector General of the Department, the Special 
                Counsel, or Congress;
                    ``(D) participating in an audit or investigation by 
                the Comptroller General of the United States;
                    ``(E) refusing to perform an action that is 
                unlawful or prohibited by the Department; or
                    ``(F) engaging in communications that are related 
                to the duties of the position or are otherwise 
                protected.
            ``(2) Preventing or restricting an employee from making an 
        action described in any of subparagraphs (A) through (F) of 
        paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Conducting a negative peer review or opening a 
        retaliatory investigation because of an activity of an employee 
        that is protected by section 2302 of title 5.
            ``(4) Requesting a contractor to carry out an action that 
        is prohibited by section 4705(b) or section 4712(a)(1) of title 
        41, as the case may be.
``Sec. 734. Evaluation criteria of supervisors and treatment of bonuses
    ``(a) Evaluation Criteria.--(1) In evaluating the performance of 
supervisors of the Department, the Secretary shall include the criteria 
described in paragraph (2).
    ``(2) The criteria described in this subsection are the following:
            ``(A) Whether the supervisor treats whistleblower 
        complaints in accordance with section 732 of this title.
            ``(B) Whether the appropriate deciding official, 
        performance review board, or performance review committee 
        determines that the supervisor was found to have committed a 
        prohibited personnel action described in section 733(b) of this 
        title by an administrative judge, the Merit Systems Protection 
        Board, the Office of Special Counsel, an adjudicating body 
        provided under a union contract, a Federal judge, or, in the 
        case of a settlement of a whistleblower complaint (regardless 
        of whether any fault was assigned under such settlement), the 
        Secretary.
    ``(b) Bonuses.--(1) The Secretary may not pay to a supervisor 
described in subsection (a)(2)(B) an award or bonus under this title or 
title 5, including under chapter 45 or 53 of such title, during the 
one-year period beginning on the date on which the determination was 
made under such subsection.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
shall issue an order directing a supervisor described in subsection 
(a)(2)(B) to repay the amount of any award or bonus paid under this 
title or title 5, including under chapter 45 or 53 of such title, if--
            ``(A) such award or bonus was paid for performance during a 
        period in which the supervisor committed a prohibited personnel 
        action as determined pursuant to such subsection (a)(2)(B);
            ``(B) the Secretary determines such repayment appropriate 
        pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary to carry 
        out this section; and
            ``(C) the supervisor is afforded notice and an opportunity 
        for a hearing before making such repayment.
``Sec. 735. Training regarding whistleblower complaints
    ``(a) Training.--Not less frequently than once each year, the 
Secretary, in coordination with the Whistleblower Protection Ombudsman 
designated under section 3(d)(1)(C) of the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), shall provide to each employee of the Department 
training regarding whistleblower complaints, including--
            ``(1) an explanation of each method established by law in 
        which an employee may file a whistleblower complaint;
            ``(2) an explanation of prohibited personnel actions 
        described by section 733(c) of this title;
            ``(3) with respect to supervisors, how to treat 
        whistleblower complaints in accordance with section 732 of this 
        title;
            ``(4) the right of the employee to petition Congress 
        regarding a whistleblower complaint in accordance with section 
        7211 of title 5;
            ``(5) an explanation that the employee may not be 
        prosecuted or reprised against for disclosing information to 
        Congress, the Inspector General, or another investigatory 
        agency in instances where such disclosure is permitted by law, 
        including under sections 5701, 5705, and 7732 of this title, 
        under section 552a of title 5 (commonly referred to as the 
        Privacy Act), under chapter 93 of title 18, and pursuant to 
        regulations promulgated under section 264(c) of the Health 
        Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public 
        Law 104-191);
            ``(6) an explanation of the language that is required to be 
        included in all nondisclosure policies, forms, and agreements 
        pursuant to section 115(a)(1) of the Whistleblower Protection 
        Enhancement Act of 2012 (5 U.S.C. 2302 note); and
            ``(7) the right of contractors to be protected from 
        reprisal for the disclosure of certain information under 
        section 4705 or 4712 of title 41.
    ``(b) Manner Training Is Provided.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
training provided under subsection (a) is provided in person.
    ``(c) Certification.--Not less frequently than once each year, the 
Secretary shall provide training on merit system protection in a manner 
that the Special Counsel certifies as being satisfactory.
    ``(d) Publication.--(1) The Secretary shall publish on the Internet 
website of the Department, and display prominently at each facility of 
the Department, the rights of an employee to file a whistleblower 
complaint, including the information described in paragraphs (1) 
through (7) of subsection (a).
    ``(2) The Secretary shall publish on the Internet website of the 
Department, the whistleblower complaint form described in section 
732(g)(2).
``Sec. 736. Reports to Congress
    ``(a) Annual Reports.--Not less frequently than once each year, the 
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report that includes--
            ``(1) with respect to whistleblower complaints filed under 
        section 732 of this title during the year covered by the 
        report--
                    ``(A) the number of such complaints filed;
                    ``(B) the disposition of such complaints; and
                    ``(C) the ways in which the Secretary addressed 
                such complaints in which a positive determination was 
                made by a supervisor under subsection (b)(1) of such 
                section;
            ``(2) the number of whistleblower complaints filed during 
        the year covered by the report that are not included under 
        paragraph (1), including--
                    ``(A) the method in which such complaints were 
                filed;
                    ``(B) the disposition of such complaints; and
                    ``(C) the ways in which the Secretary addressed 
                such complaints; and
            ``(3) with respect to disclosures made by a contractor 
        under section 4705 or 4712 of title 41--
                    ``(A) the number of complaints relating to such 
                disclosures that were investigated by the Inspector 
                General of the Department of Veterans Affairs during 
                the year covered by the report;
                    ``(B) the disposition of such complaints; and
                    ``(C) the ways in which the Secretary addressed 
                such complaints.
    ``(b) Notice of Office of Special Counsel Determinations.--Not 
later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary receives from 
the Special Counsel information relating to a whistleblower complaint 
pursuant to section 1213 of title 5, the Secretary shall notify the 
appropriate committees of Congress of such information, including the 
determination made by the Special Counsel.
    ``(c) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this section, the 
term `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
            ``(1) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee 
        on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; 
        and
            ``(2) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee 
        on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
        Representatives.''.
    (2) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (A) Conforming amendment.--Such chapter is further amended 
        by inserting before section 701 the following:

              ``SUBCHAPTER I--GENERAL EMPLOYEE MATTERS''.

            (B) Clerical amendments.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended--
                    (i) by inserting before the item relating to 
                section 701 the following new item:

               ``subchapter i--general employee matters'';

                and
                    (ii) by adding at the end the following new items:

                ``subchapter ii--whistleblower complaints

``731. Whistleblower complaint defined.
``732. Treatment of whistleblower complaints.
``733. Adverse actions against supervisory employees who commit 
                            prohibited personnel actions relating to 
                            whistleblower complaints.
``734. Evaluation criteria of supervisors and treatment of bonuses.
``735. Training regarding whistleblower complaints.
``736. Reports to Congress.''.
    (b) Treatment of Congressional Testimony by Department of Veterans 
Affairs Employees as Official Duty.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 7 of title 38, 
        United States Code, as designated by section 2(a)(2)(A), is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 715. Congressional testimony by employees: treatment as official 
              duty
    ``(a) Congressional Testimony.--An employee of the Department is 
performing official duty during the period with respect to which the 
employee is testifying in an official capacity in front of either 
chamber of Congress, a committee of either chamber of Congress, or a 
joint or select committee of Congress.
    ``(b) Travel Expenses.--The Secretary shall provide travel 
expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with 
applicable provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, to 
any employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs performing official 
duty described under subsection (a).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter, as amended by section 2(a)(2)(B), is 
        further amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
        713 the following new item:

``715. Congressional testimony by employees: treatment as official 
                            duty.''.
    Sec. 247. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the 
amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for the ``Medical Services'' account, for fiscal year 
2017, not less than $18,000,000, and for fiscal year 2018, not less 
than $70,000,000, shall be used for the provision of fertility 
treatment and counseling, including treatment using assisted 
reproductive technology, to veterans and their spouses if the veteran 
has a service-connected condition that results in the veteran being 
unable to procreate without the use of such fertility treatment.
    (b) In this section, the term ``service-connected condition'' means 
a condition that was incurred or aggravated in line of duty in the 
active military, naval, or air service (as defined in section 101 of 
title 38, United States Code).
    Sec. 248.  None of the amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available by title II may be used to carry out the Home Marketing 
Incentive Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs or to carry out 
the Appraisal Value Offer Program of the Department with respect to an 
employee of the Department in a senior executive position (as defined 
in section 713(g) of title 38, United States Code):  Provided, That the 
Secretary may waive this prohibition with respect to the use of the 
Home Marketing Incentive Program and Appraisal Value Offer Program to 
recruit for a position for which recruitment or retention of qualified 
personnel is likely to be difficult in the absence of the use of these 
incentives:  Provided further, That within 15 days of a determination 
by the Secretary to waive this prohibition, the Secretary shall submit 
written notification thereof to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress containing the reasons and identifying the 
position title for which the waiver has been issued.
    Sec. 249.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Veterans Affairs in this Act may be used 
in a manner that would--
            (1) interfere with the ability of a veteran to participate 
        in a medicinal marijuana program approved by a State;
            (2) deny any services from the Department to a veteran who 
        is participating in such a program; or
            (3) limit or interfere with the ability of a health care 
        provider of the Department to make appropriate recommendations, 
        fill out forms, or take steps to comply with such a program.
    Sec. 250. (a) In General.--For the purposes of verifying that an 
individual performed service under honorable conditions that satisfies 
the requirements of a coastwise merchant seaman who is recognized 
pursuant to section 401 of the GI Bill Improvement Act of 1977 (Public 
Law 95-202; 38 U.S.C. 106 note) as having performed active duty service 
for the purposes described in subsection (c)(1), the Secretary of 
Defense shall accept the following:
            (1) In the case of an individual who served on a coastwise 
        merchant vessel seeking such recognition for whom no applicable 
        Coast Guard shipping or discharge form, ship logbook, merchant 
        mariner's document or Z-card, or other official employment 
        record is available, the Secretary of Defense shall provide 
        such recognition on the basis of applicable Social Security 
        Administration records submitted for or by the individual, 
        together with validated testimony given by the individual or 
        the primary next of kin of the individual that the individual 
        performed such service during the period beginning on December 
        7, 1941, and ending on December 31, 1946.
            (2) In the case of an individual who served on a coastwise 
        merchant vessel seeking such recognition for whom the 
        applicable Coast Guard shipping or discharge form, ship 
        logbook, merchant mariner's document or Z-card, or other 
        official employment record has been destroyed or otherwise 
        become unavailable by reason of any action committed by a 
        person responsible for the control and maintenance of such 
        form, logbook, or record, the Secretary of Defense shall accept 
        other official documentation demonstrating that the individual 
        performed such service during period beginning on December 7, 
        1941, and ending on December 31, 1946.
            (3) For the purpose of determining whether to recognize 
        service allegedly performed during the period beginning on 
        December 7, 1941, and ending on December 31, 1946, the 
        Secretary shall recognize masters of seagoing vessels or other 
        officers in command of similarly organized groups as agents of 
        the United States who were authorized to document any 
        individual for purposes of hiring the individual to perform 
        service in the merchant marine or discharging an individual 
        from such service.
    (b) Treatment of Other Documentation.--Other documentation accepted 
by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (a)(2) shall satisfy 
all requirements for eligibility of service during the period beginning 
on December 7, 1941, and ending on December 31, 1946.
    (c) Benefits Allowed.--
            (1) Medals, ribbons, and decorations.--An individual whose 
        service is recognized as active duty pursuant to subsection (a) 
        may be awarded an appropriate medal, ribbon, or other military 
        decoration based on such service.
            (2) Status of veteran.--An individual whose service is 
        recognized as active duty pursuant to subsection (a) shall be 
        honored as a veteran but shall not be entitled by reason of 
        such recognized service to any benefit that is not described in 
        this subsection.
    Sec. 251. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that 
the Readjustment Counseling Service of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs coordinates directly with the Office of Rural Health of the 
Department on efforts to expand the capacity of Vet Centers (as defined 
in section 1712A(h) of title 38, United States Code) in order to ensure 
that the readjustment and psychological counseling needs of veterans in 
rural and highly rural communities are met.
    (b) Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives a report detailing the number of Vet Centers (as so 
defined) operated by the Department and a strategic plan to increase 
the capacity of such Vet Centers to address unmet readjustment and 
psychological counseling needs of veterans in rural and highly rural 
communities.

monthly assistance allowance for disabled veterans competing on olympic 
                                 teams

    Sec. 252. Section 322(d)(1) of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``allowance to a veteran'' and inserting 
        the following: ``allowance to--
            ``(A) a veteran'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
        striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(B) a veteran with a service-connected disability rated 
        as 30 percent or greater by the Department who is selected by 
        the United States Olympic Committee for the United States 
        Olympic Team for any month in which the veteran is competing in 
        any event sanctioned by the National Governing Bodies of the 
        United States Olympic Sports.''.

   coverage under department of veterans affairs beneficiary travel 
   program of travel in connection with certain special disabilities 
                             rehabilitation

    Sec. 253.  (a) In General.--Section 111(b)(1) of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
            ``(G) A veteran with vision impairment, a veteran with a 
        spinal cord injury or disorder, or a veteran with double or 
        multiple amputations whose travel is in connection with care 
        provided through a special disabilities rehabilitation program 
        of the Department (including programs provided by spinal cord 
        injury centers, blind rehabilitation centers, and prosthetics 
        rehabilitation centers) if such care is provided--
                    ``(i) on an in-patient basis; or
                    ``(ii) during a period in which the Secretary 
                provides the veteran with temporary lodging at a 
                facility of the Department to make such care more 
                accessible to the veteran.''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
beneficiary travel program under section 111 of title 38, United States 
Code, as amended by subsection (a), that includes the following:
            (1) The cost of the program.
            (2) The number of veterans served by the program.
            (3) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

inspection of kitchens and food service areas at medical facilities of 
                   the department of veterans affairs

    Sec. 254.  (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than annually 
thereafter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide for the 
conduct of inspections of kitchens and food service areas at each 
medical facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure that 
the same standards for kitchens and food service areas at hospitals in 
the private sector are being met at kitchens and food service areas at 
medical facilities of the Department.
    (b) Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall seek to enter into an 
        agreement with the Joint Commission on Accreditation of 
        Hospital Organizations under which the Joint Commission on 
        Accreditation of Hospital Organizations conducts the 
        inspections required under subsection (a).
            (2) Alternate organization.--If the Secretary is unable to 
        enter into an agreement described in paragraph (1) with the 
        Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organizations on 
        terms acceptable to the Secretary, the Secretary shall seek to 
        enter into such an agreement with another appropriate 
        organization that--
                    (A) is not part of the Federal Government;
                    (B) operates as a not-for-profit entity; and
                    (C) has expertise and objectivity comparable to 
                that of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of 
                Hospital Organizations.
    (c) Remediation Plan.--
            (1) Initial failure.--If a kitchen or food service area of 
        a medical facility of the Department is determined pursuant to 
        an inspection conducted under subsection (a) not to meet the 
        standards for kitchens and food service areas in hospitals in 
        the private sector, that medical facility fails the inspection 
        and the Secretary shall--
                    (A) implement a remediation plan for that medical 
                facility within 48 hours; and
                    (B) Conduct a second inspection under subsection 
                (a) at that medical facility within 7 days of the 
                failed inspection.
            (2) Second failure.--If a medical facility of the 
        Department fails the second inspection conducted under 
        paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall close the kitchen or food 
        service area at that medical facility that did not meet the 
        standards for kitchens and food service areas in hospitals in 
        the private sector until remediation is completed and all 
        kitchens and food service areas at that medical facility meet 
        such standards.
            (3) Provision of food.--If a kitchen or food service area 
        is closed at a medical facility of the Department pursuant to 
        paragraph (2), the Director of the Veterans Integrated Service 
        Network in which the medical facility is located shall enter 
        into a contract with a vendor approved by the General Services 
        Administration to provide food at the medical facility.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Quarterly.--Not less frequently than quarterly, the 
        Director of each Veterans Integrated Service Network shall 
        submit to Congress a report on inspections conducted under this 
        section during that quarter at medical facilities of the 
        Department under the jurisdiction of that Director.
            (2) Subsequent period.--A Director of a Veterans Integrated 
        Service Network may submit to Congress the report described in 
        paragraph (1) not less frequently than semiannually if the 
        Director does not report any failed inspections for the one-
        year period preceding the submittal of the report.

 inspection of mold issues at medical facilities of the department of 
                            veterans affairs

    Sec. 255.  (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than annually 
thereafter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide for the 
inspection of mold issues at medical facilities of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall seek to enter into an 
        agreement with the Joint Commission on Accreditation of 
        Hospital Organizations under which the Joint Commission on 
        Accreditation of Hospital Organizations conducts the 
        inspections required under subsection (a).
            (2) Alternate organization.--If the Secretary is unable to 
        enter into an agreement described in paragraph (1) with the 
        Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organizations on 
        terms acceptable to the Secretary, the Secretary shall seek to 
        enter into such an agreement with another appropriate 
        organization that--
                    (A) is not part of the Federal Government;
                    (B) operates as a not-for-profit entity; and
                    (C) has expertise and objectivity comparable to 
                that of the Joint Commission on Accreditation of 
                Hospital Organizations.
    (c) Remediation Plan.--If a medical facility of the Department is 
determined pursuant to an inspection conducted under subsection (a) to 
have a mold issue, the Secretary shall--
            (1) implement a remediation plan for that medical facility 
        within 48 hours; and
            (2) Conduct a second inspection under subsection (a) at 
        that medical facility within 90 days of the initial inspection.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Quarterly.--Not less frequently than quarterly, the 
        Director of each Veterans Integrated Service Network shall 
        submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and Congress a 
        report on inspections conducted under this section during that 
        quarter at medical facilities of the Department under the 
        jurisdiction of that Director.
            (2) Subsequent period.--A Director of a Veterans Integrated 
        Service Network may submit to Congress the report described in 
        paragraph (1) not less frequently than semiannually if the 
        Director does not report any mold issues for the one-year 
        period preceding the submittal of the report.

   coverage under department of veterans affairs beneficiary travel 
   program of travel in connection with certain special disabilities 
                             rehabilitation

    Sec. 256.  (a) In General.--Section 111(b)(1) of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
            ``(G) A veteran with vision impairment, a veteran with a 
        spinal cord injury or disorder, or a veteran with double or 
        multiple amputations whose travel is in connection with care 
        provided through a special disabilities rehabilitation program 
        of the Department (including programs provided by spinal cord 
        injury centers, blind rehabilitation centers, and prosthetics 
        rehabilitation centers) if such care is provided--
                    ``(i) on an in-patient basis; or
                    ``(ii) during a period in which the Secretary 
                provides the veteran with temporary lodging at a 
                facility of the Department to make such care more 
                accessible to the veteran.''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
beneficiary travel program under section 111 of title 38, United States 
Code, as amended by subsection (a), that includes the following:
            (1) The cost of the program.
            (2) The number of veterans served by the program.
            (3) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

   extension of requirement for report on capacity of department of 
       veterans affairs to provide for specialized treatment and 
               rehabilitative needs of disabled veterans

    Sec. 257. Section 1706(b)(5)(A) of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended, in the first sentence, by striking ``through 2008''.
    Sec. 258.  From the amount made available in this title under the 
heading ``Medical Support and Compliance'', up to $18,000,000 shall be 
made available for Directors of Veterans Integrated Service Networks to 
contract with appropriate non-Department of Veterans Affairs entities 
to assess, evaluate, and improve the health care delivery by and 
business operations of medical centers of the Department under the 
jurisdiction of each such Director.
    Sec. 259. (a) Not later than 180 days after the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall begin an assessment of 
whether the hiring of marriage and family therapists trained at 
Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education 
accredited institutions is adversely impacting the ability of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs to hire marriage and family therapists.
    (b) The assessment should also include what steps the Department of 
Veterans Affairs is taking to increase hiring of marriage and family 
therapists.
    (c) Not later than one year after the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit the report to the House and 
Senate Veterans Affairs Committees.
    Sec. 260.  Not later than September 30, 2017, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall--
            (1) provide for the conduct by the Office of Inspector 
        General of the Department of Veterans Affairs of an inspection 
        or audit of the use of Federal award GU1103 in the amount of 
        $3,265,487 that was awarded in 2013 to renovate a veteran's 
        cemetery in Guam under the Veterans Cemetery Grants Program of 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs, including--
                    (A) an itemized accounting of the use of such 
                award; or
                    (B) if no such itemized accounting is possible, an 
                explanation of why any amounts in connection with such 
                award are unaccounted for;
            (2) submit to the Committee on Appropriations and the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Appropriations and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        House of Representatives a report on the results on the 
        inspection or audit conducted under paragraph (1); and
            (3) publish the results on the inspection or audit 
        conducted under paragraph (1) on a publicly available Internet 
        website of the Department.
    Sec. 261. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may use amounts 
appropriated or otherwise made available in this title to ensure that 
the ratio of veterans to full-time employment equivalents within any 
program of rehabilitation conducted under chapter 31 of title 38, 
United States Code, does not exceed 125 veterans to one full-time 
employment equivalent.
    (b) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the programs of 
rehabilitation conducted under chapter 31 of title 38, United States 
Code, including--
            (1) an assessment of the veteran-to-staff ratio for each 
        such program; and
            (2) recommendations for such action as the Secretary 
        considers necessary to reduce the veteran-to-staff ratio for 
        each such program.
    Sec. 262.  Not later than September 30, 2017, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress a plan on modernizing the 
system of the Veterans Health Administration for processing claims by 
non-Department of Veterans Affairs health care providers for 
reimbursement for health care provided to veterans under the laws 
administered by the Secretary.

    authorization of certain major medical facility projects of the 
                     department of veterans affairs

    Sec. 263.  (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016, which was passed by 
        the Senate on November 10, 2015, without a single vote cast 
        against the bill, and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 
        include the following amounts to be appropriated to the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs:
                    (A) $35,000,000 to make seismic corrections to 
                Building 208 at the West Los Angeles Medical Center of 
                the Department in Los Angeles, California, which, 
                according to the Department, is a building that is 
                designated as having an exceptionally high risk of 
                sustaining substantial damage or collapsing during an 
                earthquake.
                    (B) $158,000,000 to provide for the construction of 
                a new research building, site work, and demolition at 
                the San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
                    (C) $161,000,000 to replace Building 133 with a new 
                community living center at the Long Beach Veterans 
                Affairs Medical Center, which, according to the 
                Department, is a building that is designated as having 
                an extremely high risk of sustaining major damage 
                during an earthquake.
                    (D) $468,800,000 for construction projects that are 
                critical to the Department for ensuring health care 
                access and safety at medical facilities in Louisville, 
                Kentucky, Jefferson Barracks in St. Louis, Missouri, 
                Perry Point, Maryland, American Lake, Washington, 
                Alameda, California, and Livermore, California.
            (2) The Department is unable to obligate or expend the 
        amounts described in paragraph (1), other than for construction 
        design, because the Department lacks an explicit authorization 
        by an Act of Congress pursuant to section 8104(a)(2) of title 
        38, United States Code, to carry out the major medical facility 
        projects described in such paragraph.
            (3) Among the major medical facility projects described in 
        paragraph (1), three are critical seismic safety projects in 
        California.
            (4) Every day that the critical seismic safety projects 
        described in paragraph (3) are delayed increases the risk of a 
        life-threatening building failure in the case of a major 
        seismic event.
            (5) According to the United States Geological Survey--
                    (A) California has more than a 99 percent chance of 
                experiencing an earthquake of magnitude 6.7 or greater 
                in the next 30 years;
                    (B) even earthquakes of less severity than 
                magnitude 6.7 can cause life threatening damage to 
                seismically unsafe buildings; and
                    (C) in California, earthquakes of magnitude 6.0 or 
                greater occur on average once every 1.2 years.
            (6) On January 20, 2016, the Senate passed this legislation 
        by unanimous consent as S. 2422, 114th Congress.
    (b) Authorization.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may carry out 
the following major medical facility projects, with each project to be 
carried out in an amount not to exceed the amount specified for that 
project:
            (1) Seismic corrections to buildings, including 
        retrofitting and replacement of high-risk buildings, in San 
        Francisco, California, in an amount not to exceed $180,480,000.
            (2) Seismic corrections to facilities, including facilities 
        to support homeless veterans, at the medical center in West Los 
        Angeles, California, in an amount not to exceed $105,500,000.
            (3) Seismic corrections to the mental health and community 
        living center in Long Beach, California, in an amount not to 
        exceed $287,100,000.
            (4) Construction of an outpatient clinic, administrative 
        space, cemetery, and columbarium in Alameda, California, in an 
        amount not to exceed $87,332,000.
            (5) Realignment of medical facilities in Livermore, 
        California, in an amount not to exceed $194,430,000.
            (6) Construction of a medical center in Louisville, 
        Kentucky, in an amount not to exceed $150,000,000.
            (7) Construction of a replacement community living center 
        in Perry Point, Maryland, in an amount not to exceed 
        $92,700,000.
            (8) Seismic corrections and other renovations to several 
        buildings and construction of a specialty care building in 
        American Lake, Washington, in an amount not to exceed 
        $16,260,000.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations for Construction.--There is 
authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for 
fiscal year 2016 or the year in which funds are appropriated for the 
Construction, Major Projects, account, $1,113,802,000 for the projects 
authorized in subsection (b).
    (d) Limitation.--The projects authorized in subsection (b) may only 
be carried out using--
            (1) funds appropriated for fiscal year 2016 pursuant to the 
        authorization of appropriations in subsection (c);
            (2) funds available for Construction, Major Projects, for a 
        fiscal year before fiscal year 2016 that remain available for 
        obligation;
            (3) funds available for Construction, Major Projects, for a 
        fiscal year after fiscal year 2016 that remain available for 
        obligation;
            (4) funds appropriated for Construction, Major Projects, 
        for fiscal year 2016 for a category of activity not specific to 
        a project;
            (5) funds appropriated for Construction, Major Projects, 
        for a fiscal year before fiscal year 2016 for a category of 
        activity not specific to a project; and
            (6) funds appropriated for Construction, Major Projects, 
        for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2016 for a category of 
        activity not specific to a project.
    Sec. 264. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to deny an Inspector General funded under this Act timely access 
to any records, documents, or other materials available to the 
department or agency over which that Inspector General has 
responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.), or to prevent or impede that Inspector General's access to such 
records, documents, or other materials, under any provision of law, 
except a provision of law that expressly refers to the Inspector 
General and expressly limits the Inspector General's right of access.
    (b) A department or agency covered by this section shall provide 
its Inspector General with access to all such records, documents, and 
other materials in a timely manner.
    (c) Each Inspector General shall ensure compliance with statutory 
limitations on disclosure relevant to the information provided by the 
establishment over which that Inspector General has responsibilities 
under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (d) Each Inspector General covered by this section shall report to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate within 5 calendar days any failures to comply with this 
requirement.
    Sec. 265.  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report that contains 
an update on the progress of the Department of Veterans Affairs in 
completing the Rural Veterans Burial Initiative and the expected 
timeline for completion of such initiative.
    Sec. 266.  Of the funds made available in this title for fiscal 
year 2017 for medical support and compliance, not less than $21,000,000 
shall be made available to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire 
Medical Center Directors and employees for other management and 
clinical positions that are critical to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs in order to fill vacancies in such positions.
    Sec. 267.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this title may be used by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to enter into an agreement related to resolving a dispute or 
claim with an individual that would restrict in any way the individual 
from speaking to members of Congress or their staff on any topic not 
otherwise prohibited from disclosure by Federal law.

    prevention of certain health care providers from providing non-
              department health care services to veterans

    Sec. 268.  (a) In General.--One year after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall deny or revoke the eligibility 
of a health care provider to provide non-Department health care 
services to veterans if the Secretary determines that--
            (1) the health care provider was removed from employment 
        with the Department of Veterans Affairs due to conduct that 
        violated a policy of the Department relating to the delivery of 
        safe and appropriate patient care;
            (2) the health care provider violated the requirements of a 
        medical license of the health care provider;
            (3) the health care provider had a Department credential 
        revoked and the Secretary determines that the grounds for such 
        revocation impacts the ability of the health care provider to 
        deliver safe and appropriate care; or
            (4) the health care provider violated a law for which a 
        term of imprisonment of more than one year may be imposed.
    (b) Permissive Action.--One year after enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary may deny, revoke, or suspend the eligibility of a health care 
provider to provide non-Department health care services if the 
Secretary has reasonable belief that such action is necessary to 
immediately protect the health, safety, or welfare of veterans and--
            (1) the health care provider is under investigation by the 
        medical licensing board of a State in which the health care 
        provider is licensed or practices;
            (2) the health care provider has entered into a settlement 
        agreement for a disciplinary charge relating to the practice of 
        medicine by the health care provider; or
            (3) the Secretary otherwise determines that such action is 
        appropriate under the circumstances.
    (c) Suspension.--The Secretary shall suspend the eligibility of a 
health care provider to provide non-Department health care services to 
veterans if the health care provider is suspended from serving as a 
health care provider of the Department.
    (d) Initial Review.--The Secretary shall review the Department 
employment status and history of each health care provider providing 
non-Department health care services to determine instances of 
circumstances described in paragraphs (a) through (c) and shall take 
action as appropriate to each circumstance as described in paragraphs 
(a) through (c).
    (e) Report Required.--Not later than two years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to Congress a report on the implementation by the 
Secretary of this section, including the following:
            (1) The aggregate number of health care providers denied or 
        suspended under this section from participation in providing 
        non-Department health care services.
            (2) An evaluation of any impact on access to care for 
        patients or staffing shortages in programs of the Department 
        providing non-Department health care services.
            (3) An explanation of the coordination of the Department 
        with the medical licensing boards of States in implementing 
        this section, the amount of involvement of such boards in such 
        implementation, and efforts by the Department to address any 
        concerns raised by such boards with respect to such 
        implementation.
            (4) Such recommendations as the Comptroller General 
        considers appropriate regarding harmonizing eligibility 
        criteria between health care providers of the Department and 
        health care providers eligible to provide non-Department health 
        care services.
    (f) Non-Department Health Care Services Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``non-Department health care services'' means--
            (1) services provided under subchapter I of chapter 17 of 
        title 38, United States Code, at non-Department facilities (as 
        defined in section 1701 of such title);
            (2) services provided under section 101 of the Veterans 
        Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-
        146; 38 U.S.C. 1701 note);
            (3) services purchased through the Medical Community Care 
        account of the Department; or
            (4) services purchased with amounts deposited in the 
        Veterans Choice Fund under section 802 of the Veterans Access, 
        Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement 
basis only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $7,500 
for official reception and representation expenses; and insurance of 
official motor vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of 
such countries, $75,100,000 to remain available until expended.

                 foreign currency fluctuations account

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes authorized by section 2109 of 
title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by sections 7251 through 
7298 of title 38, United States Code, $30,945,100:  Provided, That 
$2,500,000 shall be available for the purpose of providing financial 
assistance as described, and in accordance with the process and 
reporting procedures set forth under this heading in Public Law 102-
229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for maintenance, operation, and improvement 
of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National 
Cemetery, including the purchase or lease of passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement on a one-for-one basis only, and not to exceed $1,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $70,800,000 of 
which not to exceed $28,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2019. In addition, such sums as may be necessary for parking 
maintenance, repairs and replacement, to be derived from the ``Lease of 
Department of Defense Real Property for Defense Agencies'' account.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               trust fund

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home to 
operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi, to be paid from funds available in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund, $64,300,000, of which $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for construction and renovation of the 
physical plants at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi:  Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading from funds available in the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust 
Fund, $22,000,000 shall be paid from the general fund of the Treasury 
to the Trust Fund.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 301.  Funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Department of Defense--Civil, Cemeterial Expenses, Army'', may be 
provided to Arlington County, Virginia, for the relocation of the 
federally owned water main at Arlington National Cemetery, making 
additional land available for ground burials.
    Sec. 302.  Amounts deposited into the special account established 
under 10 U.S.C. 4727 are appropriated and shall be available until 
expended to support activities at the Army National Military 
Cemeteries.

                                TITLE IV

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 403.  All departments and agencies funded under this Act are 
encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory authorities and 
funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' technologies and 
procedures in the conduct of their business practices and public 
service activities.
    Sec. 404.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and notifications 
required by this Act shall be submitted to the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related 
Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 405.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 406. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public Web 
site of that agency any report required to be submitted by the Congress 
in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head of the 
agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
        information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.
    Sec. 407. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 408.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by an agency of the executive branch to pay for first-class travel by 
an employee of the agency in contravention of sections 301-10.122 
through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 409. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in this Act may 
be used to construct, renovate, or expand any facility in the United 
States, its territories, or possessions to house any individual 
detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for the 
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
control of the Department of Defense.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control 
                of the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States 
                Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Military Construction, Veterans 
Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017''.

                                TITLE V

                     ZIKA RESPONSE AND PREPAREDNESS

                               CHAPTER 1

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                          primary health care

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Primary Health 
Care'', $40,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2017, to 
prevent, prepare for, and respond to Zika virus, other vector-borne 
diseases, and related health outcomes, domestically and 
internationally:  Provided, That funds appropriated in this paragraph 
shall be used to expand the delivery of primary health services 
authorized by section 330 of the Public Health Service (``PHS'') Act in 
Puerto Rico and other territories:  Provided further, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                            health workforce

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Health 
Workforce'', $6,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 2017, 
to prevent, prepare for, and respond to Zika virus, other vector-borne 
diseases, and related health outcomes, domestically and 
internationally:  Provided, That funds appropriated in this paragraph 
may, for purposes of providing primary health services in areas 
affected by Zika virus or other vector-borne diseases, be used to 
assign National Health Service Corps (``NHSC'') members to Puerto Rico 
and other Territories, notwithstanding the assignment priorities and 
limitations in or under sections 333(a)(1)(D), 333(b), or 333A(a) of 
the PHS Act, and to make NHSC Loan Repayment Program awards under 
section 338B of such Act:  Provided further, That for purposes of the 
previous proviso, section 331(a)(3)(D) of the PHS Act shall be applied 
as if the term ``primary health services'' included health services 
regarding pediatric subspecialists:  Provided further, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                       maternal and child health

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Maternal and 
Child Health'', $5,000,000 to remain available until September 30, 
2017, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to Zika virus, other vector-
borne diseases, and related health outcomes, domestically and 
internationally:  Provided, That funds appropriated in this paragraph 
may be awarded for projects of regional and national significance in 
Puerto Rico and other Territories authorized under section 501 of the 
Social Security Act, notwithstanding section 502 of such Act:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                cdc-wide activities and program support

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``CDC-Wide 
Activities and Program Support'', $449,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to Zika 
virus, other vector-borne diseases, and related health outcomes, 
domestically and internationally; and to carry out titles II, III, and 
XVII of the PHS Act with respect to domestic preparedness and global 
health:  Provided, That products purchased with these funds may, at the 
discretion of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, be deposited 
in the Strategic National Stockpile under section 319F-2 of the PHS 
Act:  Provided further, That funds may be used for purchase and 
insurance of official motor vehicles in foreign countries:  Provided 
further, That the provisions in section 317S of the PHS Act shall not 
apply to the use of funds appropriated in this paragraph:  Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this paragraph may be used for 
grants for the construction, alteration, or renovation of non-federally 
owned facilities to improve preparedness and response capability at the 
State and local level:  Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated in this paragraph, $88,000,000 may be used to reimburse 
accounts administered by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
for obligations incurred for Zika virus response prior to the enactment 
of this Act:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                     National Institutes of Health

         national institute of allergy and infectious diseases

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``National 
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases'', $200,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017, to prevent, prepare for, and 
respond to Zika virus, other vector-borne diseases, and related health 
outcomes, domestically and internationally, including expenses related 
to carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Office of the Secretary

            public health and social services emergency fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Public Health 
and Social Services Emergency Fund'', $150,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to Zika 
virus, other vector-borne diseases, and related health outcomes, 
domestically and internationally; to develop necessary countermeasures 
and vaccines, including the development and purchase of vaccines, 
therapeutics, diagnostics, necessary medical supplies, and 
administrative activities; for carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of 
the PHS Act with respect to domestic preparedness and global health; 
and for additional payments for distribution as provided for under the 
``Social Services Block Grant Program'':  Provided, That funds 
appropriated in this paragraph may be used to procure security 
countermeasures (as defined in section 319F-2(c)(1)(B) of the PHS Act, 
as amended by this Act):  Provided further, That paragraphs (1) and 
(7)(C) of subsection (c) of section 319F-2 of the PHS Act, but no other 
provisions of such section, shall apply to such security 
countermeasures procured with funds appropriated in this paragraph:  
Provided further, That products purchased with funds appropriated in 
this paragraph may, at the discretion of the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, be deposited in the Strategic National Stockpile under 
section 319F-2 of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That countermeasures 
related to the Zika virus procured with funds appropriated in this 
paragraph shall be deemed to be security countermeasures as defined in 
section 319F-2(c)(1) of the PHS Act, and paragraph (7)(C), but no other 
provision, of such section 319F-2(c) shall apply to procurements of 
such countermeasures:  Provided further, That $75,000,000 shall be 
transferred to ``Social Services Block Grant'' for health services, 
notwithstanding section 2005(a)(4) of the Social Security Act, in 
territories with active or local transmission cases of the Zika virus, 
as confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention:  
Provided further, That the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
distribute funds transferred to the ``Social Services Block Grant'' in 
this paragraph to such territories in accordance with objective 
criteria that are made available to the public:  Provided further, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    General Provisions--This Chapter

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 501.  For purposes of preventing, preparing for, and 
responding to Zika virus, other vector-borne diseases, and related 
health outcomes domestically and internationally, the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services may use funds provided in this chapter to 
acquire, lease, construct, alter, renovate, equip, furnish, or manage 
facilities outside of the United States, as necessary to conduct such 
programs, in consultation with the Secretary of State, either directly 
for the use of the United States Government or for the use, pursuant to 
grants, direct assistance, or cooperative agreements, of public or 
nonprofit private institutions or agencies in participating foreign 
countries.
    Sec. 502.  Funds appropriated by this chapter may be used by the 
heads of the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of 
State, and the Agency for International Development to appoint, without 
regard to the provisions of sections 3309 through 3319 of title 5 of 
the United States Code, candidates needed for positions to perform 
critical work relating to Zika response for which--
            (1) public notice has been given; and
            (2) the Secretary of Health and Human Services has 
        determined that such a public health threat exists.
    Sec. 503.  Funds appropriated in this chapter may be transferred 
to, and merged with, other appropriation accounts under the headings 
``Centers for Disease Control and Prevention'', ``Public Health and 
Social Services Emergency Fund'', ``Health Resources and Services 
Administration'', and ``National Institutes of Health'' for the 
purposes specified in this chapter following consultation with the 
Office of Management and Budget:  Provided, That the Committees on 
Appropriations shall be notified 10 days in advance of any such 
transfer:  Provided further, That, upon a determination that all or 
part of the funds transferred from an appropriation are not necessary, 
such amounts may be transferred back to that appropriation:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available by this chapter may be 
transferred pursuant to the authority in section 206 of division G of 
Public Law 113-235 or section 241(a) of the PHS Act.
    Sec. 504.  Not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall provide a detailed spend 
plan of anticipated uses of funds made available in this chapter, 
including estimated personnel and administrative costs, to the 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That such plans shall be 
updated and submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate 
every 90 days until September 30, 2017, and every 180 days thereafter 
until all funds have been fully expended.

                               CHAPTER 2

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Diplomatic and 
Consular Programs'', $14,594,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2017, for necessary expenses to support response efforts related to 
the Zika virus and related health outcomes, other vector-borne 
diseases, or other infectious diseases:  Provided, That up to 
$4,000,000 may be made available for medical evacuation costs of any 
other Department or agency of the United States under Chief of Mission 
authority, and may be transferred to any other appropriation of such 
Department or agency for such costs:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Emergencies in 
the Diplomatic and Consular Service'', $4,000,000 for necessary 
expenses to support response efforts related to the Zika virus and 
related health outcomes, other vector-borne diseases, or other 
infectious diseases, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   repatriation loans program account

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Repatriation 
Loans Program Account'' for the cost of direct loans, $1,000,000, to 
support response efforts related to the Zika virus and related health 
outcomes, other vector-borne diseases, or other infectious diseases, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such costs, including 
costs of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That such 
funds are available to subsidize an additional amount of gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$1,880,406:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

           United States Agency for International Development

                  funds appropriated to the president

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Operating 
Expenses'', $10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, 
for necessary expenses to support response efforts related to the Zika 
virus and related health outcomes, other vector-borne diseases, or 
other infectious diseases:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                     Bilateral Economic Assistance

                  funds appropriated to the president

                         global health programs

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Global Health 
Programs'', $211,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses for assistance or research to prevent, treat, or 
otherwise respond to the Zika virus and related health outcomes, other 
vector-borne diseases, or other infectious diseases:  Provided, That 
such funds may be made available for multi-year funding commitments to 
incentivize the development of global health technologies, following 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this chapter may be made 
available for the Grand Challenges for Development program:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                   International Security Assistance

                          department of state

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for 
``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', 
$4,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, for necessary 
expenses to support response and research efforts related to the Zika 
virus and related health outcomes, other vector-borne diseases, or 
other infectious diseases:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                        Multilateral Assistance

                  funds appropriated to the president

                international organizations and programs

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``International 
Organizations and Programs'', $13,500,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017 for necessary expenses to support response and 
research efforts related to the Zika virus and related health outcomes, 
other vector-borne diseases, or other infectious diseases:  Provided, 
That section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not 
apply to funds appropriated under this heading:  Provided further, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    General Provisions--This Chapter

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 505. (a) Funds appropriated by this chapter under the headings 
``Global Health Programs'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
Demining and Related Programs'', ``International Organizations and 
Programs'', and ``Operating Expenses'' may be transferred to, and 
merged with, funds appropriated by this chapter under such headings to 
carry out the purposes of this chapter.
    (b) Funds appropriated by this chapter under the headings 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic 
and Consular Service'', and ``Repatriation Loans Program Account'' may 
be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by this chapter 
under such headings to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
    (c) The transfer authorities provided by this section are in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided by law.
    (d) Upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred 
pursuant to the authorities provided by this section are not necessary 
for such purposes, such amounts may be transferred back to such 
appropriations.
    (e) No funds shall be transferred pursuant to this section unless 
at least 15 days prior to making such transfer the Secretary of State 
or the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID), as appropriate, notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations in writing of the details of any such transfer.

                        notification requirement

    Sec. 506.  Funds appropriated by this chapter that are made 
available to respond to the Zika virus outbreak, other vector-borne 
diseases, or other infectious diseases shall not be available for 
obligation unless the Secretary of State or the USAID Administrator, as 
appropriate, notifies the Committees on Appropriations in writing at 
least 15 days in advance of such obligation.

                         spend plan requirement

    Sec. 507.  Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act and 
prior to the obligation of funds made available by this chapter to 
respond to the Zika virus outbreak, other vector-borne diseases, or 
other infectious diseases, the Secretary of State and the USAID 
Administrator, as appropriate, shall submit spend plans to the 
Committees on Appropriations on the anticipated uses of funds on a 
country and project basis, including estimated personnel and 
administrative costs:  Provided, That such plans shall be updated and 
submitted to the Committee on Appropriations every 90 days until 
September 30, 2017, and every 180 days thereafter until all funds have 
been fully expended.

                     comptroller general oversight

    Sec. 508.  Of the funds appropriated by this chapter, up to 
$500,000 shall be made available to the Comptroller General of the 
United States, to remain available until expended, for oversight of 
activities supported pursuant to this chapter with funds appropriated 
by this chapter:  Provided, That the Secretary of State and USAID 
Administrator, as appropriate, and the Comptroller General shall 
consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior to obligating such 
funds.

                               rescission

    Sec. 509.  Of the unobligated balances available under the heading 
``Operating Expenses'' in title IX of the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J 
of Public Law 113-235), $10,000,000 are rescinded:  Provided, That such 
amounts are designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                               CHAPTER 3

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                extension of authorities and provisions

    Sec. 510.  Unless otherwise provided for by this title, the 
additional amounts appropriated pursuant to this title for fiscal year 
2016 are subject to the requirements for funds contained in the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public Law 114-113).

                      personal service contractors

    Sec. 511.  Funds made available by this title to support response 
efforts related to the Zika virus and related health outcomes, other 
vector-borne diseases, or other infectious diseases may be used to 
enter into contracts with individuals for the provision of personal 
services (as described in section 104 of part 37 of title 48, Code of 
Federal Regulations (48 CFR 37.104)), within the United States and 
abroad, subject to prior consultation with, and the notification 
procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided, That such 
individuals may not be deemed employees of the United States for the 
purpose of any law administered by the Office of Personnel Management.

                        designation requirement

    Sec. 512.  Each amount designated in this title by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be 
available (or rescinded, if applicable) only if the President 
subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.

                             effective date

    Sec. 513.  This title shall become effective immediately upon 
enactment of this Act.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H.R. 2577

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENT
