[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 444 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                  House Calendar No. 60
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 444

                          [Report No. 114-269]

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3495) to amend title XIX 
of the Social Security Act to allow for greater State flexibility with 
   respect to excluding providers who are involved in abortions, and 
   waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to 
  consideration of certain resolutions reported from the Committee on 
                                 Rules.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 28, 2015

     Ms. Foxx, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3495) to amend title XIX 
of the Social Security Act to allow for greater State flexibility with 
   respect to excluding providers who are involved in abortions, and 
   waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to 
  consideration of certain resolutions reported from the Committee on 
                                 Rules.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3495) to amend title XIX 
of the Social Security Act to allow for greater State flexibility with 
respect to excluding providers who are involved in abortions. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying 
this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further 
amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: 
(1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or 
their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-
thirds vote to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the 
same day it is presented to the House is waived with respect to any 
resolution reported through the legislative day of October 1, 2015.
                                                  House Calendar No. 60

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 444

                          [Report No. 114-269]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3495) to amend title XIX 
of the Social Security Act to allow for greater State flexibility with 
   respect to excluding providers who are involved in abortions, and 
   waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to 
  consideration of certain resolutions reported from the Committee on 
                                 Rules.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 28, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
