[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 635 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                  House Calendar No. 94
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 635

                          [Report No. 114-443]

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4557) to allow for 
    judicial review of any final rule addressing national emission 
 standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay 
products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before requiring compliance 
 with such rule, and providing for proceedings during the period from 
                 March 4, 2016, through March 11, 2016.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 2, 2016

    Mr. Byrne, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4557) to allow for 
    judicial review of any final rule addressing national emission 
 standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay 
products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before requiring compliance 
 with such rule, and providing for proceedings during the period from 
                 March 4, 2016, through March 11, 2016.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4557) to allow for 
judicial review of any final rule addressing national emission 
standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay 
products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before requiring compliance 
with such rule. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Energy and Commerce; and (2) one motion to 
recommit.
    Sec. 2.  On any legislative day during the period from March 4, 
2016, through March 11, 2016--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be 
considered as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet 
at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I 
of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the 
adjournment.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of 
the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this 
resolution as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
                                                  House Calendar No. 94

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 635

                          [Report No. 114-443]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4557) to allow for 
    judicial review of any final rule addressing national emission 
 standards for hazardous air pollutants for brick and structural clay 
products or for clay ceramics manufacturing before requiring compliance 
 with such rule, and providing for proceedings during the period from 
                 March 4, 2016, through March 11, 2016.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             March 2, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
