[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 571 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 571

      Establishing the Select Committee on Oversight of the Joint 
                     Comprehensive Plan of Action.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 17, 2015

   Mr. Young of Indiana (for himself, Mr. Boustany, Mr. Kinzinger of 
 Illinois, Mrs. Walorski, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. 
   Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Graves of 
Louisiana, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Messer, Mr. Russell, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Jordan, 
   Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Heck of Nevada, Mr. Fortenberry, Mr. Chabot, Mr. 
Zinke, Mr. Crawford, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Brat, and 
 Mr. Gosar) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to 
                         the Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
      Establishing the Select Committee on Oversight of the Joint 
                     Comprehensive Plan of Action.

    Resolved,

SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is hereby established the Select Committee on Oversight of 
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (hereinafter referred to as the 
``Select Committee'').

SEC. 2. COMPOSITION.

    (a) Members.--The Select Committee shall be composed of 12 members 
as follows:
            (1) The chair and ranking member of the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs (or their designees from the member of that 
        committee).
            (2) The chair and ranking member of the Committee on 
        Intelligence (or their designees from among the member of that 
        committee).
            (3) Eight members appointed by the Speaker of whom 3 shall 
        be appointed after consultation with the minority leader.
    (b) Chair.--The Speaker shall designate one member to serve as 
chair of the Select Committee.
    (c) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Select Committee shall be filled 
in the same manner as the original appointment.

SEC. 3. INVESTIGATION AND REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE JOINT 
              COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF ACTION.

    The Select Committee is authorized to conduct comprehensive 
oversight and investigate compliance of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
Action (hereinafter referred to as the ``JCPOA'') and shall issue 
annual reports of its findings to the House regarding--
            (1) all enrichment activities, including relevant 
        limitations pertaining to uranium enrichment levels, centrifuge 
        capacity, and related research and development;
            (2) all international collaborative partnerships formed and 
        the agreed upon research interests;
            (3) all uranium stockpile levels, including enrichment 
        levels as well as the amount and price of any excess uranium 
        sold to international buyers;
            (4) all International Atomic Energy Agency oversight 
        activities relating to the JCPOA, including the effectiveness 
        of relevant inspections into JCPOA tenants;
            (5) compliance with all enacted international and domestic 
        sanctions, including potential violations of relevant 
        sanctions;
            (6) all financial transactions including establishment of 
        banking relationships, trade in gold and precious metals, 
        investment in Iran's oil, gas, and petrochemical sectors;
            (7) all research and development of missile technology and 
        the acquisition of relevant technology from international 
        partners; and
            (8) all acquisition of conventional weaponry by the Iranian 
        regime.

SEC. 4. PROCEDURE.

    (a) Inapplicability of Certain House Rules.--Clause 11(b)(4), 
clause 11(e), and the first sentence of clause 11(f) of rule X of the 
Rules of the House of Representatives shall apply to the Select 
Committee.
    (b) Applicability of House Rule XI.--Rule XI of the Rules of the 
House of Representatives shall apply to the Select Committee except as 
follows:
            (1) Clause 2(a) of rule XI shall not apply to the Select 
        Committee.
            (2) Clause 2(g)(2)(D) of rule XI shall apply to the Select 
        Committee in the same manner as it applies to the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence.
            (3) Pursuant to clause 2(h) of rule XI, two members of the 
        Select Committee shall constitute a quorum for taking testimony 
        or receiving evidence and one-third of the members of the 
        Select Committee shall constitute a quorum for taking any 
        action other than one for which the presence of a majority of 
        the Select Committee is required.
            (4) The chair of the Select Committee may authorize and 
        issue subpoenas pursuant to clause 2(m) of rule XI in the 
        investigation and study conducted pursuant to section 3 of this 
        resolution, including for the purpose of taking depositions.
            (5)(A) The chair of the Select Committee, upon consultation 
        with the ranking minority member, may order the taking of 
        depositions, under oath and pursuant to notice or subpoena, by 
        a member of the Select Committee or a counsel of the Select 
        Committee.
            (B) Depositions taken under the authority prescribed in 
        this paragraph shall be governed by the procedures submitted by 
        the chair of the Committee on Rules for printing in the 
        Congressional Record.
            (6) The chair of the Select Committee may, after 
        consultation with the ranking minority member, recognize--
                    (A) members of the Select Committee to question a 
                witness for periods longer than five minutes as though 
                pursuant to clause 2(j)(2)(B) of rule XI; and
                    (B) staff of the Select Committee to question a 
                witness as though pursuant to clause 2(j)(2)(C) of rule 
                XI.

SEC. 5. RECORDS, STAFF, FUNDING.

    (a) Records.--Any committee of the House of Representatives having 
custody of records in any form in relation to the matter described in 
section 3 shall transfer such records to the Select Committee within 14 
days after the date this resolution is agreed to. Such records shall 
become the records of the Select Committee.
    (b) Staff.--The chair of the Select Committee, upon consultation 
with the ranking member, may employ and fix the compensation of such 
staff as the chair considers necessary to carry out this resolution.
    (c) Funding.--There shall be paid out of the applicable account of 
the House of Representatives such sums as may be necessary for the 
expenses of the Select Committee. Such payments shall be made on 
vouchers signed by the chair of the Select Committee and approved in 
the manner directed by the Committee on House Administration. Amounts 
made available under this subsection shall be expended in accordance 
with regulations prescribed by the Committee on House Administration.
                                 <all>
