[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 482 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

<DOC>
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 482


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 4, 2016

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To redesignate Ocmulgee National Monument in the State of Georgia and 
              revise its boundary, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical 
Park Boundary Revision Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Ocmulgee National Monument Proposed Boundary Adjustment, 
        numbered 363/125996'', and dated January 2016.
            (2) Historical park.--The term ``Historical Park'' means 
        the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park in the State of 
        Georgia, as redesignated in section 3.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 3. OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Redesignation.--Ocmulgee National Monument, established 
pursuant to the Act of June 14, 1934 (48 Stat. 958), shall be known and 
designated as ``Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to ``Ocmulgee National 
Monument'', other than in this Act, shall be deemed to be a reference 
to ``Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park''.

SEC. 4. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Historical Park is revised to 
include approximately 2,100 acres, as generally depicted on the map.
    (b) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service, the Department of the Interior.

SEC. 5. LAND ACQUISITION; NO BUFFER ZONES.

    (a) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary is authorized to acquire land 
and interests in land within the boundaries of the Historical Park by 
donation or exchange only (and in the case of an exchange, no payment 
may be made by the Secretary to any landowner). The Secretary may not 
acquire by condemnation any land or interest in land within the 
boundaries of the Historical Park. No private property or non-Federal 
public property shall be included within the boundaries of the 
Historical Park without the written consent of the owner of such 
property.
    (b) No Buffer Zones.--Nothing in this Act, the establishment of the 
Historical Park, or the management of the Historical Park shall be 
construed to create buffer zones outside of the Historical Park. That 
an activity or use can be seen or heard from within the Historical Park 
shall not preclude the conduct of that activity or use outside the 
Historical Park.

SEC. 6. ADMINISTRATION.

    The Secretary shall administer any land acquired under section 5 as 
part of the Historical Park in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations.

SEC. 7. OCMULGEE RIVER CORRIDOR SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a special resource 
study of the Ocmulgee River corridor between the cities of Macon, 
Georgia, and Hawkinsville, Georgia, to determine--
            (1) the national significance of the study area;
            (2) the suitability and feasibility of adding lands in the 
        study area to the National Park System; and
            (3) the methods and means for the protection and 
        interpretation of the study area by the National Park Service, 
        other Federal, State, local government entities, affiliated 
        federally recognized Indian tribes, or private or nonprofit 
        organizations.
    (b) Criteria.--The Secretary shall conduct the study authorized by 
this Act in accordance with section 100507 of title 54, United States 
Code.
    (c) Results of Study.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
which funds are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary 
shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate--
            (1) the results of the study; and
            (2) any findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the 
        Secretary.

            Passed the House of Representatives March 22, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
