[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 462 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                  House Calendar No. 64
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 462

                          [Report No. 114-289]

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3192) to provide for a 
  temporary safe harbor from the enforcement of integrated disclosure 
   requirements for mortgage loan transactions under the Real Estate 
Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 and the Truth in Lending Act, and for 
 other purposes, and providing for proceedings during the period from 
              October 12, 2015, through October 19, 2015.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 6, 2015

   Mr. Stivers, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3192) to provide for a 
  temporary safe harbor from the enforcement of integrated disclosure 
   requirements for mortgage loan transactions under the Real Estate 
Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 and the Truth in Lending Act, and for 
 other purposes, and providing for proceedings during the period from 
              October 12, 2015, through October 19, 2015.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3192) to provide for a 
temporary safe harbor from the enforcement of integrated disclosure 
requirements for mortgage loan transactions under the Real Estate 
Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 and the Truth in Lending Act, and for 
other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Financial Services; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  On any legislative day during the period from October 12, 
2015, through October 19, 2015--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be 
considered as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet 
at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I 
of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the 
adjournment.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of 
the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this 
resolution as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
                                                  House Calendar No. 64

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 462

                          [Report No. 114-289]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3192) to provide for a 
  temporary safe harbor from the enforcement of integrated disclosure 
   requirements for mortgage loan transactions under the Real Estate 
Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 and the Truth in Lending Act, and for 
 other purposes, and providing for proceedings during the period from 
              October 12, 2015, through October 19, 2015.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 6, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
