[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 350 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 47
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 350

                          [Report No. 114-193]

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6) to accelerate the 
  discovery, development, and delivery of 21st century cures, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              July 8, 2015

   Mr. Burgess, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6) to accelerate the 
  discovery, development, and delivery of 21st century cures, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6) to accelerate the 
discovery, development, and delivery of 21st century cures, and for 
other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. 
General debate shall be confined to the bill and amendments specified 
in this resolution and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce. After general debate the bill shall be considered 
for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in 
the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-22 shall 
be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the 
Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as the original bill 
for the purpose of further amendment under the five-minute rule and 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the bill, as 
amended, shall be in order except those printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such further 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may 
be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the 
report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with 
such further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any 
further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
                                                  House Calendar No. 47

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 350

                          [Report No. 114-193]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6) to accelerate the 
  discovery, development, and delivery of 21st century cures, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              July 8, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
