[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3522 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3522

 To amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each 
 State to implement a process under which individuals who are 16 years 
of age may apply to register to vote in elections for Federal office in 
the State, to direct the Election Assistance Commission to make grants 
  to States to increase the involvement of minors in public election 
                  activities, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 16, 2015

 Mr. Beyer (for himself, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Swalwell of California, Ms. 
 Jackson Lee, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Higgins, Mr. Cummings, Mr. 
  Honda, and Mr. Blumenauer) introduced the following bill; which was 
           referred to the Committee on House Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each 
 State to implement a process under which individuals who are 16 years 
of age may apply to register to vote in elections for Federal office in 
the State, to direct the Election Assistance Commission to make grants 
  to States to increase the involvement of minors in public election 
                  activities, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Pre-Registration of Voters 
Everywhere Act'' or the ``PROVE Act''.

SEC. 2. PRE-REGISTRATION OF MINORS FOR VOTING IN FEDERAL ELECTIONS.

    (a) Requiring Implementation of Process.--The National Voter 
Registration Act of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after section 8 the following new section:

``SEC. 8A. PRE-REGISTRATION PROCESS FOR MINORS.

    ``(a) Requiring Implementation of Pre-Registration Process.--Each 
State shall implement a process under which--
            ``(1) an individual who is a resident of the State may 
        apply to register to vote in elections for Federal office in 
        the State at any time after the individual turns 16 years of 
        age; and
            ``(2) if the individual is not 18 years of age or older at 
        the time the individual applies under paragraph (1) but would 
        be eligible to vote in such elections if the individual were 18 
        years of age, the State shall ensure that the individual is 
        registered to vote in elections for Federal office in the State 
        that are held on or after the date on which the individual 
        turns 18 years of age.
    ``(b) Permitting Availability of Process for Younger Individuals.--
A State may, at its option, make the process implemented under 
subsection (a) available to individuals who are younger than 16 years 
of age.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect upon the expiration of the 90-day period that begins on the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3. GRANTS TO STATES FOR ACTIVITIES TO ENCOURAGE INVOLVEMENT OF 
              MINORS IN ELECTION ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Election Assistance Commission 
        (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Commission'') 
        shall make grants to eligible States to enable such States to 
        carry out a plan to increase the involvement of individuals 
        under 18 years of age in public election activities in the 
        State.
            (2) Contents of plans.--A State's plan under this 
        subsection shall include--
                    (A) methods to promote the use of the pre-
                registration process implemented under section 8A of 
                the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (as added 
                by section 2(a));
                    (B) modifications to the curriculum of secondary 
                schools in the State to promote civic engagement; and
                    (C) such other activities to encourage the 
                involvement of young people in the electoral process as 
                the State considers appropriate.
    (b) Eligibility.--A State is eligible to receive a grant under this 
section if the State submits to the Commission, at such time and in 
such form as the Commission may require, an application containing--
            (1) a description of the State's plan under subsection (a);
            (2) a description of the performance measures and targets 
        the State will use to determine its success in carrying out the 
        plan; and
            (3) such other information and assurances as the Commission 
        may require.
    (c) Period of Grant; Report.--
            (1) Period of grant.--A State receiving a grant under this 
        section shall use the funds provided by the grant over a 2-year 
        period agreed to between the State and the Commission.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 6 months after the end of the 
        2-year period agreed to under paragraph (1), the State shall 
        submit to the Commission a report on the activities the State 
        carried out with the funds provided by the grant, and shall 
        include in the report an analysis of the extent to which the 
        State met the performance measures and targets included in its 
        application under subsection (b)(2).
    (d) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' means each 
of the several States and the District of Columbia.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for grants under this section $25,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.
                                 <all>
