[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5600 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 641
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5600

                          [Report No. 114-817]

   To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot 
program to provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy 
                        technology to veterans.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 28, 2016

   Mr. Knight (for himself, Mr. Guinta, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
  Gibson, Mr. Russell, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Cook, Mr. Denham, Mr. Austin 
 Scott of Georgia, Mr. Joyce, Mr. Heck of Washington, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
     Coffman, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Zinke, Mrs. Davis of 
 California, and Mr. Keating) introduced the following bill; which was 
             referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

                           November 14, 2016

Additional sponsors: Mr. Emmer of Minnesota, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. O'Rourke, 
  Mr. Moulton, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Peters, Mr. Nugent, Ms. Kuster, Mr. 
Kline, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Ms. Duckworth, Mrs. Mimi 
          Walters of California, Mr. Amodei, and Ms. Stefanik

                           November 14, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
 [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on June 
                               28, 2016]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot 
program to provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy 
                        technology to veterans.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``No Hero Left Untreated Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Magnetic EEG/EKG-guided Resonance Therapy technology 
        (in this section referred to as ``MeRT technology'') has 
        successfully treated more than 400 veterans with post-traumatic 
        stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, military sexual 
        trauma, chronic pain, and opiate addiction.
            (2) Recent clinical trials and randomized, placebo-
        controlled, double-blind studies have produced promising 
        measurable outcomes in the evolution of MeRT technology.
            (3) These outcomes have resulted in escalating demand from 
        returning warriors and veterans who are seeking access to this 
        treatment.
            (4) Congress recognizes the importance of initiating 
        innovative pilot programs that demonstrate the use and 
        effectiveness of new treatment options for post-traumatic 
        stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, military sexual 
        trauma, chronic pain, and opiate addiction.

SEC. 3. MAGNETIC EEG/EKG-GUIDED RESONANCE THERAPY TECHNOLOGY PILOT 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Pilot Program.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry 
out a pilot program to provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided 
resonance therapy technology (commonly referred to as ``MeRT 
technology'') to treat larger populations of veterans suffering from 
post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, military sexual 
trauma, chronic pain, or opiate addiction.
    (b) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
under subsection (a) at not more than two facilities of the Department 
of Veteran Affairs.
    (c) Participants.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
subsection (a), the Secretary may not provide access to magnetic EEG/
EKG-guided resonance therapy technology to more than 50 veterans.
    (d) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
under subsection (a) for a one-year period.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
termination of the pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report on the pilot program.
    (f) No Authorization of Appropriations.--No additional funds are 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out the requirements of this 
section. Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise 
authorized.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 641

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5600

                          [Report No. 114-817]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot 
program to provide access to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy 
                        technology to veterans.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           November 14, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
