[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4149 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4149

   To amend the Federal Water Pollution Control Act with respect to 
 citizen suits and the specification of disposal sites, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 1, 2015

  Mr. Rice of South Carolina introduced the following bill; which was 
     referred to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Federal Water Pollution Control Act with respect to 
 citizen suits and the specification of disposal sites, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Discouraging Frivolous Lawsuits 
Act''.

SEC. 2. CITIZEN SUITS.

    (a) Costs of Litigation.--Section 505(d) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1365(d)) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(d) The court, in issuing any final order in any action brought 
pursuant to this section, shall award costs of litigation (including 
reasonable attorney and expert witness fees) to the prevailing party. 
For purposes of this subsection, the prevailing party shall be 
considered to be the party, if any, that prevails on more than half of 
the claims at issue in the action. The court may, if a temporary 
restraining order or preliminary injunction is sought, require the 
filing of a bond or equivalent security in accordance with the Federal 
Rules of Civil Procedure.''.
    (b) Restriction on Certain Settlements.--Section 505(c) of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.1365(c)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Restriction on certain orders and settlements.--A 
        Federal court may not order, or approve a settlement requiring, 
        in an action brought pursuant to this section, a governmental 
        entity to carry out, or otherwise provide for, compensatory 
        mitigation with respect to a permit applied for by, or issued 
        to, the entity under section 404 in excess of the requirements 
        for such mitigation under parts 320, 323, 325, and 332 of title 
        33, Code of Federal Regulations, and part 230 of title 40, Code 
        of Federal Regulations.''.

SEC. 3. SPECIFICATION OF DISPOSAL SITES.

    (a) In General.--Section 404(c) of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(c)) is repealed.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 404(b) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Subject to subsection (c) of this 
        section, each such disposal site'' and inserting ``Each such 
        disposal site''; and
            (2) by striking ``the Administrator, in conjunction with''.

SEC. 4. PROHIBITION ON EXCESS MITIGATION.

    Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
1344) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(u) No governmental entity may carry out, or otherwise provide 
for, compensatory mitigation, with respect to a permit issued to the 
entity under this section, in excess of the requirements for such 
mitigation under parts 320, 323, 325, and 332 of title 33, Code of 
Federal Regulations, and part 230 of title 40, Code of Federal 
Regulations.''.
                                 <all>
