[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 949 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 164
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 949

                          [Report No. 114-849]

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
   2028) making appropriations for energy and water development and 
related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for 
other purposes, and providing for consideration of the bill (S. 612) to 
designate the Federal building and United States courthouse located at 
1300 Victoria Street in Laredo, Texas, as the ``George P. Kazen Federal 
                Building and United States Courthouse''.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 7, 2016

   Mr. Woodall, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
   2028) making appropriations for energy and water development and 
related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for 
other purposes, and providing for consideration of the bill (S. 612) to 
designate the Federal building and United States courthouse located at 
1300 Victoria Street in Laredo, Texas, as the ``George P. Kazen Federal 
                Building and United States Courthouse''.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 2028) making 
appropriations for energy and water development and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes, 
with the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, 
without intervention of any point of order, a motion offered by the 
chair of the Committee on Appropriations or his designee that the House 
concur in the Senate amendment with an amendment consisting of the text 
of Rules Committee Print 114-70 modified by the amendment printed in 
the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. The 
Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion 
shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to 
its adoption without intervening motion.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (S. 612) to designate the Federal 
building and United States courthouse located at 1300 Victoria Street 
in Laredo, Texas, as the ``George P. Kazen Federal Building and United 
States Courthouse''. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. An amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting 
of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-69 shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided among 
and controlled by the respective chairs and ranking minority members of 
the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Natural Resources, and 
Transportation and Infrastructure; and (2) one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
                                                 House Calendar No. 164

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 949

                          [Report No. 114-849]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
   2028) making appropriations for energy and water development and 
related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for 
other purposes, and providing for consideration of the bill (S. 612) to 
designate the Federal building and United States courthouse located at 
1300 Victoria Street in Laredo, Texas, as the ``George P. Kazen Federal 
                Building and United States Courthouse''.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            December 7, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
