[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5859 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 586
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5859

                          [Report No. 114-754]

   To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish the major 
metropolitan area counterterrorism training and exercise grant program, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 14, 2016

 Mr. McCaul (for himself, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Hurd of Texas, Mr. 
Olson, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Flores, Mr. Donovan, Mr. 
   Langevin, Mr. Ratcliffe, Ms. McSally, Mrs. Torres, Mr. Mica, Ms. 
Sinema, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Higgins, Mr. Babin, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. 
Katko, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Garrett, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Brady 
of Texas, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. Emmer of Minnesota, Mr. Zeldin, 
 and Mr. Nugent) introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                   the Committee on Homeland Security

                           September 19, 2016

Additional sponsors: Mrs. Comstock, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Miller 
                      of Florida, and Mr. Burgess

                           September 19, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
 [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on July 
                               14, 2016]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish the major 
metropolitan area counterterrorism training and exercise grant program, 
                        and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Community Counterterrorism 
Preparedness Act''.

SEC. 2. MAJOR METROPOLITAN AREA COUNTERTERRORISM TRAINING AND EXERCISE 
              GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XX of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 603 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 2009. MAJOR METROPOLITAN AREA COUNTERTERRORISM TRAINING AND 
              EXERCISE GRANT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Administrator and the heads of other relevant components of the 
        Department, shall carry out a program for emergency response 
        providers to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the most 
        likely terrorist attack scenarios, including active shooters, 
        as determined by the Secretary, against major metropolitan 
        areas.
            ``(2) Information.--In establishing the program under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide to eligible 
        applicants--
                    ``(A) information, in an unclassified format, on 
                the most likely terrorist attack scenarios, including 
                active shooters, which such grants are intended to 
                address; and
                    ``(B) information on training and exercises best 
                practices.
    ``(b) Eligible Applicants.--
            ``(1) In general.--Emergency response providers in 
        jurisdictions that are currently receiving, or that previously 
        received, funding under section 2003 may apply for a grant 
        under the program established in subsection (a).
            ``(2) Additional jurisdictions.--Eligible applicants 
        receiving funding under the program established in subsection 
        (a) may include in activities funded by such program 
        neighboring jurisdictions that would be likely to provide 
        mutual aid in response to the most likely terrorist attack 
        scenarios, including active shooters.
    ``(c) Application.--
            ``(1) In general.--Eligible applicants described in 
        subsection (b) may apply for a grant under this section, and 
        shall submit such information in support of an application as 
        the Administrator may require.
            ``(2) Minimum contents of application.--The Administrator 
        shall require that each applicant include in its application at 
        a minimum, the following:
                    ``(A) The purpose for which the applicant seeks 
                grant funds, including a description of how the 
                applicant plans to use such funds.
                    ``(B) A description of how the activity for which 
                the funding is sought will prepare the applicant to 
                prevent, prepare for, and respond to complex, 
                coordinated attacks.
                    ``(C) A description of how the applicant will work 
                with community partners located within the applicant's 
                jurisdiction, such as schools, places of worship, and 
                businesses, as appropriate, when conducting activities 
                permitted under subsection (d).
                    ``(D) Such other information as determined 
                necessary by the Administrator.
    ``(d) Permitted Uses.--The recipient of a grant under this section 
may use such grant to conduct training and exercises consistent with 
preventing, preparing for, and responding to the most likely terrorist 
attack scenarios, including active shooters.
    ``(e) Period of Performance.--The Administrator shall make funds 
provided under this section available for use by a recipient of a grant 
for a period of not fewer than 24 months.
    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for grants under this section $39,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2017 through 2022.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 2008 the following new item:

``Sec. 2009. Major metropolitan area counterterrorism training and 
                            exercise grant program.''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 586

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5859

                          [Report No. 114-754]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish the major 
metropolitan area counterterrorism training and exercise grant program, 
                        and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 19, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
