[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1027 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1027

To require notification of information security breaches and to enhance 
         penalties for cyber criminals, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 21, 2015

  Mr. Kirk (for himself and Mrs. Gillibrand) introduced the following 
 bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, 
                      Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require notification of information security breaches and to enhance 
         penalties for cyber criminals, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Data Breach Notification and 
Punishing Cyber Criminals Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. REQUIREMENTS FOR INFORMATION SECURITY.

    Each covered entity shall take reasonable measures to protect and 
secure data in electronic form containing personal information.

SEC. 3. NOTIFICATION OF INFORMATION SECURITY BREACH.

    (a) Notification.--
            (1) In general.--A covered entity that owns or licenses 
        data in electronic form containing personal information shall 
        give notice of any breach of the security of the system 
        following discovery by the covered entity of the breach of the 
        security of the system to each individual who is a citizen or 
        resident of the United States--
                    (A) whose personal information was, or that the 
                covered entity reasonably believes to have been, 
                accessed and acquired by an unauthorized person; or
                    (B) who the covered entity reasonably believes may 
                be at risk of identity theft, fraud, actual financial 
                harm, or other unlawful conduct.
            (2) Law enforcement.--
                    (A) Designation of a government entity to receive 
                notice.--
                            (i) In general.--Not later than 60 days 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                        Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation 
                        with the Attorney General, shall designate a 
                        Federal Government entity to receive the 
                        information required to be submitted under this 
                        section, and any other reports and information 
                        about information security incidents, threats, 
                        and vulnerabilities.
                            (ii) Responsibilities of the designated 
                        entity.--The designated entity shall--
                                    (I) be responsible for promptly 
                                providing the information it receives 
                                to the United States Secret Service and 
                                the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
                                and to the Federal Trade Commission for 
                                civil law enforcement purposes; and
                                    (II) provide the information 
                                described in subclause (I) as 
                                appropriate to other Federal agencies 
                                for law enforcement, national security, 
                                or data security purposes.
                    (B) Notice.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
                on which a security breach is discovered, a covered 
                entity shall notify the designated entity of the fact 
                that the breach of security has occurred if--
                            (i) the number of individuals whose 
                        personal information was, or is reasonably 
                        believed to be to have been accessed and 
                        acquired by an unauthorized person is more than 
                        1,000;
                            (ii) the security breach involves a 
                        database, networked or integrated databases, or 
                        other data system containing the personal 
                        information of more than 250,000 individuals;
                            (iii) the security breach involves 
                        databases owned by the Federal Government; or
                            (iv) the security breach involves personal 
                        information of primarily individuals known to 
                        the covered entity to be employees and 
                        contractors of the Federal Government involved 
                        in national security or law enforcement.
                    (C) FTC review of thresholds.--
                            (i) Review.--Not later than 1 year after 
                        the date of enactment of this Act, the Federal 
                        Trade Commission, in consultation with the 
                        Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland 
                        Security, shall promulgate regulations 
                        regarding the reports required under 
                        subparagraph (A).
                            (ii) Rulemaking.--The Federal Trade 
                        Commission, in consultation with the Attorney 
                        General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
                        after notice and the opportunity for public 
                        comment, and in a manner consistent with this 
                        section, shall promulgate regulations, as 
                        necessary, under section 553 of title 5, United 
                        States Code, to adjust the thresholds for 
                        notice to law enforcement and national security 
                        authorities under subparagraph (A) and to 
                        facilitate the purposes of this section.
    (b) Special Notification Requirements.--
            (1) Third-party agents.--
                    (A) In general.--In the event of a breach of 
                security of a system maintained by a third-party entity 
                that has been contracted to maintain, store, or process 
                data in electronic form containing personal information 
                on behalf of a covered entity who owns or possesses 
                such data, the third-party entity shall notify the 
                covered entity of the breach of security.
                    (B) Covered entities who receive notice from third 
                parties.--Upon receiving notification from a third 
                party under subparagraph (A), a covered entity shall 
                provide notification as required under subsection (a).
                    (C) Exception for service providers.--For purposes 
                of this paragraph, a service provider shall not be 
                considered a third-party agent.
            (2) Service providers.--
                    (A) In general.--If a service provider becomes 
                aware of a breach of security involving data in 
                electronic form containing personal information that is 
                owned or possessed by a covered entity that connects to 
                or uses a system or network provided by the service 
                provider for the purpose of transmitting, routing, or 
                providing intermediate or transient storage of such 
                data, the service provider shall notify the covered 
                entity who initiated such connection, transmission, 
                routing, or storage if the covered entity can be 
                reasonably identified.
                    (B) Covered entities who receive notice from 
                service providers.--Upon receiving notification from a 
                service provider under subparagraph (A), a covered 
                entity shall provide notification as required under 
                subsection (a).
    (c) Timeliness of Notification.--
            (1) Notification to affected individuals.--
                    (A) In general.--Unless subject to a delay 
                authorized under subparagraph (B) or paragraph (2), a 
                notification required under subsection (a)(1) with 
                respect to a security breach shall be made not later 
                than 30 days after the date on which the security 
                breach was discovered, consistent with any measures 
                necessary to determine the scope of the security breach 
                and restore the reasonable integrity of the data system 
                that was breached.
                    (B) Follow-up notification.--Not later than 60 days 
                after the date on which notice is provided under 
                subsection (a)(1), if a covered entity has discovered 
                additional information relating to how a breach of 
                security occurred (as required under subsection 
                (d)(1)(B)(iii) to be included in a notification) the 
                covered entity may provide a follow-up notification to 
                affected individuals that contains the additional 
                information.
            (2) Delay of notification authorized for law enforcement or 
        national security purposes.--
                    (A) Law enforcement.--If a Federal law enforcement 
                agency determines that the notification required under 
                subsection (a) would impede a civil or criminal 
                investigation, such notification shall be delayed upon 
                the written request of the law enforcement agency for 
                any period which the law enforcement agency determines 
                is reasonably necessary. A law enforcement agency may, 
                by a subsequent written request, revoke such delay or 
                extend the period set forth in the original request 
                made under this subparagraph by a subsequent request if 
                further delay is necessary.
                    (B) National security.--If a Federal national 
                security agency or homeland security agency determines 
                that the notification required under this section would 
                threaten national or homeland security, such 
                notification may be delayed upon the written request of 
                the national security agency or homeland security 
                agency for any period which the national security 
                agency or homeland security agency determines is 
                reasonably necessary. A Federal national security 
                agency or homeland security agency may revoke such 
                delay or extend the period set forth in the original 
                request made under this subparagraph by a subsequent 
                written request if further delay is necessary.
    (d) Method and Content of Notification.--
            (1) Direct notification.--
                    (A) Method of notification.--A covered entity 
                required to provide notification to an individual under 
                subsection (a) shall be in compliance with such 
                requirement if the covered entity provides such notice 
                by any one of the following methods:
                            (i) Written notification, sent to the 
                        postal address of the individual in the records 
                        of the covered entity.
                            (ii) Telephone.
                            (iii) Email or other electronic means.
                    (B) Content of notification.--Regardless of the 
                method by which notification is provided to an 
                individual under subparagraph (A) with respect to a 
                security breach, such notification, to the extent 
                practicable, shall include--
                            (i) the date, estimated date, or estimated 
                        date range of the breach of security;
                            (ii) a description of the personal 
                        information that was accessed and acquired, or 
                        reasonably believed to have been accessed and 
                        acquired, by an unauthorized person as a part 
                        of the security breach;
                            (iii) a general description of how the 
                        breach of security occurred; and
                            (iv) information that the individual can 
                        use to contact the covered entity to inquire 
                        about--
                                    (I) the breach of security; or
                                    (II) the information the covered 
                                entity maintained about that 
                                individual.
            (2) Substitute notification.--
                    (A) Circumstances giving rise to substitute 
                notification.--A covered entity required to provide 
                notification to an individual under subsection (a) may 
                provide substitute notification in lieu of the direct 
                notification required by paragraph (1) if such direct 
                notification is not feasible due to--
                            (i) excessive cost to the covered entity 
                        required to provide such notification relative 
                        to the resources of such covered entity; or
                            (ii) lack of sufficient contact information 
                        for the individual required to be notified.
                    (B) Form of substitute notification.--Substitute 
                notification described in subparagraph (A) shall 
                include--
                            (i) a conspicuous notice on the Internet 
                        Web site of the covered entity (if such covered 
                        entity maintains such a Web site); and
                            (ii) notification in print and to broadcast 
                        media, including major media in metropolitan 
                        and rural areas where the individuals whose 
                        personal information was acquired reside.
            (3) Cost of notification.--A covered entity required to 
        provide notification to an individual under subsection (a) 
        shall provide such notification at no cost to the individual.
    (e) Treatment of Persons Governed by Other Federal Law.--Except as 
provided in section 4(b), a covered entity who is in compliance with 
any other Federal law that requires such covered entity to provide 
notification to individuals following a breach of security shall be 
deemed to be in compliance with this section.

SEC. 4. APPLICATION AND ENFORCEMENT.

    (a) General Application.--The requirements of sections 2 and 3 
apply to--
            (1) any covered entity over which the Commission has 
        authority pursuant to section 5(a)(2) of the Federal Trade 
        Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45(a)(2)); and
            (2) notwithstanding section 5(a)(2) of the Federal Trade 
        Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45(a)(2)), common carriers subject to 
        the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.).
    (b) Application to Cable Operators, Satellite Operators, and 
Telecommunications Carriers.--Sections 222, 338, and 631 of the 
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 222, 338, and 551), and any 
regulations promulgated thereunder, shall not apply with respect to the 
information security practices, including practices relating to the 
notification of unauthorized access to data in electronic form, of any 
covered entity otherwise subject to those sections.
    (c) Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission.--
            (1) Unfair or deceptive acts or practices.--A violation of 
        section 2 or 3 shall be treated as an unfair or deceptive act 
        or practice in violation of a regulation under section 
        18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 
        57a(a)(1)(B)) regarding unfair or deceptive acts or practices.
            (2) Powers of commission.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subsection 
                (a), the Commission shall enforce this Act in the same 
                manner, by the same means, and with the same 
                jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all 
                applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade 
                Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were incorporated 
                into and made a part of this Act.
                    (B) Privileges and immunities.--Any person who 
                violates section 3 or 4 shall be subject to the 
                penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities 
                provided in such Act.
            (3) Maximum total liability.--Notwithstanding the number of 
        actions which may be brought against a covered entity under 
        this subsection, the maximum civil penalty for which any 
        covered entity may be liable under this subsection for all 
        actions shall not exceed--
                    (A) $1,000,000 for all violations of section 2 
                resulting from the same related act or omission; and
                    (B) $1,000,000 for all violations of section 3 
                resulting from a single breach of security.
    (d) No Private Cause of Action.--Nothing in this Act shall be 
construed to establish a private cause of action against a person for a 
violation of this Act.

SEC. 5. CRIMINAL PENALTIES FOR CYBER CRIMES.

    Part I of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in chapter 47--
                    (A) in section 1028(b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                inserting ``or'' after the semicolon;
                                    (II) in subparagraph (C), by 
                                striking ``or'' after the semicolon; 
                                and
                                    (III) by striking subparagraph (D);
                            (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and 
                        (6), as paragraphs (6) and (7), respectively; 
                        and
                            (iii) by inserting after paragraph (4), the 
                        following:
            ``(5) for an offense under paragraph (7) of such 
        subsection, a fine of not more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
        person is an organization), imprisonment for not more than 30 
        years, or both;'';
                    (B) in section 1028A(a)(1), by striking ``2 years'' 
                and inserting ``4 years'';
                    (C) in section 1029(c)(1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) in clause (i), by striking ``a 
                                fine under this title or imprisonment 
                                for not more than 10 years'' and 
                                inserting ``a fine of not more than 
                                $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the person is 
                                an organization), imprisonment for not 
                                more than 20 years''; and
                                    (II) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``a fine under this title or 
                                imprisonment for not more than 15 
                                years'' and inserting ``a fine of not 
                                more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
                                person is an organization), 
                                imprisonment for not more than 30 
                                years''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``a 
                        fine under this title or imprisonment for not 
                        more than 20 years'' and inserting ``a fine of 
                        not more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
                        person is an organization), imprisonment for 
                        not more than 40 years''; and
                    (D) in section 1030(c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``subsection (a)(2), (a)(3),'' 
                                and inserting ``subsection (a)(3)'';
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B)--
                                            (aa) in the matter 
                                        preceding clause (i), by 
                                        striking ``a fine under this 
                                        title or imprisonment for not 
                                        more than 5 years'' and 
                                        inserting ``a fine of not more 
                                        than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if 
                                        the person is an organization), 
                                        imprisonment for not more than 
                                        10 years''; and
                                            (bb) in clause (iii), by 
                                        striking ``and'' at the end;
                                    (III) in subparagraph (C), by 
                                striking ``(a)(2),''; and
                                    (IV) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
            ``(D) a fine of not more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
        person is an organization), imprisonment for not more than 2 
        years, or both, in the case of an offense under subsection 
        (a)(2) which does not occur after a conviction for another 
        offense under this section, or an attempt to commit an offense 
        punishable under this subparagraph; and
            ``(E) a fine of not more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
        person is an organization), imprisonment for not more than 20 
        years, or both, in the case of an offense under subsection 
        (a)(2) which occurs after a conviction for another offense 
        under this section, or an attempt to commit an offense 
        punishable under this subparagraph;'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``(a)(4) or''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``(a)(4), or'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (4)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), in the 
                                matter preceding clause (i), by 
                                striking ``a fine under this title, 
                                imprisonment for not more than 5 
                                years'' and inserting ``a fine of not 
                                more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
                                person is an organization), 
                                imprisonment for not more than 10 
                                years'';
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), in the 
                                matter preceding clause (i), by 
                                striking ``a fine under this title, 
                                imprisonment for not more than 10 
                                years'' and inserting ``a fine of not 
                                more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
                                person is an organization), 
                                imprisonment for not more than 20 
                                years'';
                                    (III) in subparagraph (C), in the 
                                matter preceding clause (i), by 
                                striking ``a fine under this title, 
                                imprisonment for not more than 20 
                                years'' and inserting ``a fine of not 
                                more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
                                person is an organization), 
                                imprisonment for not more than 40 
                                years'';
                                    (IV) in subparagraph (D), in the 
                                matter preceding clause (i), by 
                                striking ``a fine under this title, 
                                imprisonment for not more than 10 
                                years'' and inserting ``a fine of not 
                                more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
                                person is an organization), 
                                imprisonment for not more than 20 
                                years'';
                                    (V) in subparagraph (E), by 
                                striking ``a fine under this title, 
                                imprisonment for not more than 20 
                                years'' and inserting ``a fine of not 
                                more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
                                person is an organization), 
                                imprisonment for not more than 40 
                                years'';
                                    (VI) in subparagraph (F)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``a fine 
                                        under this title'' and 
                                        inserting ``a fine of not more 
                                        than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if 
                                        the person is an 
                                        organization)''; and
                                            (bb) by striking ``or'' at 
                                        the end; and
                                    (VII) in subparagraph (G)--
                                            (aa) in the matter 
                                        preceding clause (i), by 
                                        striking ``under this title, 
                                        imprisonment for not more than 
                                        1 year'' and inserting ``of not 
                                        more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 
                                        if the person is an 
                                        organization), imprisonment for 
                                        not more than 2 years''; and
                                            (bb) in clause (ii), by 
                                        striking the period at the end 
                                        and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5)(A) a fine of not more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if 
        the person is an organization), imprisonment for not more than 
        10 years, or both, in the case of an offense under subsection 
        (a)(4) which does not occur after a conviction for another 
        offense under this section, or an attempt to commit an offense 
        punishable under this subparagraph; and
            ``(B) a fine of not more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the 
        person is an organization), imprisonment for not more than 20 
        years, or both, in the case of an offense under subsection 
        (a)(4) which occurs after a conviction for another offense 
        under this section, or an attempt to commit an offense 
        punishable under this subparagraph.'';
            (2) in chapter 63--
                    (A) in section 1343--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``fined under this title or imprisoned not more 
                        than 20 years'' and inserting ``fined not more 
                        than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the person is an 
                        organization), imprisoned not more than 40 
                        years''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``$1,000,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 
                        years'' and inserting ``$2,000,000, imprisoned 
                        for any term of years or for life''; and
                    (B) in section 1344, by striking ``$1,000,000 or 
                imprisoned not more than 30 years'' and inserting 
                ``$2,000,000 or imprisoned for any term of years or for 
                life''; and
            (3) in section 1519, by striking ``fined under this title, 
        imprisoned not more than 20 years'' and inserting ``fined not 
        more than $500,000 ($1,000,000 if the person is an 
        organization), imprisoned not more than 40 years''.

SEC. 6. APPREHENSION AND PROSECUTION OF INTERNATIONAL CYBER CRIMINALS.

    (a) International Cyber Criminal Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``international cyber criminal'' means an individual--
            (1) who is physically present within a country with which 
        the United States does not have a mutual legal assistance 
        treaty or an extradition treaty;
            (2) who is believed to have committed a cybercrime or 
        intellectual property crime against the interests of the United 
        States or its citizens; and
            (3) for whom--
                    (A) an arrest warrant has been issued by a judge in 
                the United States; or
                    (B) an international wanted notice (commonly 
                referred to as a ``Red Notice'') has been circulated by 
                Interpol.
    (b) Bilateral Consultations.--The Secretary of State, or designee, 
shall consult with the appropriate government official of each country 
in which one or more international cyber criminals are physically 
present to determine what actions the government of such country has 
taken--
            (1) to apprehend and prosecute such criminals; and
            (2) to prevent such criminals from carrying out cybercrimes 
        or intellectual property crimes against the interests of the 
        United States or its citizens.
    (c) Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees an annual report that 
        identifies--
                    (A) the number of international cyber criminals who 
                are located in countries that do not have an 
                extradition treaty or mutual legal assistance treaty 
                with the United States, broken down by country;
                    (B) the dates on which an official of the 
                Department of State, as a result of this Act, discussed 
                ways to thwart or prosecute international cyber 
                criminals in a bilateral conversation with an official 
                of another country, including the name of each such 
                country; and
                    (C) for each international cyber criminal who was 
                extradited into the United States during the most 
                recently completed calendar year--
                            (i) his or her name;
                            (ii) the crimes for which he or she was 
                        charged;
                            (iii) his or her previous country of 
                        residence; and
                            (iv) the country from which he or she was 
                        extradited into the United States.
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--For purposes of 
        this subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional 
        committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
                Affairs of the Senate;
                    (E) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (F) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (G) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (H) the Committee on Financial Services of the 
                House of Representatives.

SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Breach of security.--The term ``breach of security'' 
        means unauthorized access and acquisition of data in electronic 
        form containing personal information.
            (2) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Trade Commission.
            (3) Covered entity.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``covered entity'' means 
                a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, trust, 
                estate, cooperative, association, or other commercial 
                entity that acquires, maintains, stores, or utilizes 
                personal information.
                    (B) Exemptions.--The term ``covered entity'' does 
                not include the following:
                            (i) Financial institutions subject to title 
                        V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801 
                        et seq.).
                            (ii) An entity covered by the regulations 
                        issued under section 264(c) of the Health 
                        Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 
                        1996 (Public Law 104-191) to the extent that 
                        such entity is subject to the requirements of 
                        such regulations with respect to protected 
                        health information.
            (4) Data in electronic form.--The term ``data in electronic 
        form'' means any data stored electronically or digitally on any 
        computer system or other database and includes recordable tapes 
        and other mass storage devices.
            (5) Designated entity.--The term ``designated entity'' 
        means the Federal Government entity designated under section 
        3(a)(2)(A).
            (6) Personal information.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``personal information'' 
                means an individual's first name or first initial and 
                last name in combination with any one or more of the 
                following data elements for that individual:
                            (i) Social Security number.
                            (ii) Driver's license number, passport 
                        number, military identification number, or 
                        other similar number issued on a government 
                        document used to verify identity.
                            (iii) Financial account number, or credit 
                        or debit card number, and any required security 
                        code, access code, or password that is 
                        necessary to permit access to an individual's 
                        financial account.
                            (iv) Federal or State government issued 
                        identification card.
                            (v) A username or email address, in 
                        combination with a password or security 
                        question and answer that would allow access to 
                        an online account.
                            (vi) Medical information, including the 
                        medical history, mental or physical condition, 
                        or medical treatment or diagnosis by a health 
                        care professional of the individual.
                            (vii) Health insurance information, 
                        including a health insurance policy number or 
                        subscriber identification number, any unique 
                        identifier used by a health insurer to identify 
                        an individual, or any information in a health 
                        insurance application or claim history filed by 
                        the individual.
                            (viii) An individual taxpayer 
                        identification number.
                    (B) Exclusions.--
                            (i) Public record information.--Personal 
                        information does not include information 
                        obtained about an individual which has been 
                        lawfully made publicly available by a Federal, 
                        State, or local government entity or widely 
                        distributed by media.
                            (ii) Encrypted, redacted, or secured 
                        data.--Personal information does not include 
                        information that is encrypted, redacted, or 
                        secured by any other method or technology that 
                        renders the data elements unusable.
            (7) Service provider.--The term ``service provider'' means 
        an entity that provides electronic data transmission, routing, 
        intermediate, and transient storage, or connections to its 
        system or network, where such entity providing such services 
        does not select or modify the content of the electronic data, 
        is not the sender or the intended recipient of the data, and 
        does not differentiate personal information from other 
        information that such entity transmits, routes, stores, or for 
        which such entity provides connections. Any such entity shall 
        be treated as a service provider under this Act only to the 
        extent that it is engaged in the provision of such 
        transmission, routing, intermediate and transient storage, or 
        connections.

SEC. 8. EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.

    This Act preempts any law, rule, regulation, requirement, standard, 
or other provision having the force and effect of law of any State, or 
political subdivision of a State, relating to the protection or 
security of data in electronic form containing personal information or 
the notification of a breach of security.

SEC. 9. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
