[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1815 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1815

 To require a process by which members of the Armed Forces may carry a 
         concealed personal firearm on a military installation.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 21, 2015

  Mr. Heller introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
              referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require a process by which members of the Armed Forces may carry a 
         concealed personal firearm on a military installation.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PROCESS BY WHICH MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES MAY CARRY A 
              CONCEALED PERSONAL FIREARM ON A MILITARY INSTALLATION.

    (a) Process Required.--The Secretary of Defense, taking into 
consideration the views of senior leadership of military installations 
in the United States, shall establish a process by which the commander 
of a military installation in the United States may authorize a member 
of the Armed Forces who is assigned to duty at the installation to 
carry a concealed personal firearm on the installation if the commander 
determines it to be necessary as a personal-protection or force-
protection measure.
    (b) Relation to State and Local Law.--In establishing the process 
under subsection (a) for a military installation, the commander of the 
installation shall consult with elected officials of the State and 
local jurisdictions in which the installation is located and take into 
consideration the law of the State and such jurisdictions regarding 
carrying a concealed personal firearm.
    (c) Member Qualifications.--To be eligible to be authorized to 
carry a concealed personal firearm on a military installation pursuant 
to the process established under subsection (a), a member of the Armed 
Forces--
            (1) must complete any training and certification required 
        by any State in which the installation is located that would 
        permit the member to carry concealed in that State;
            (2) must not be subject to disciplinary action under the 
        Uniform Code of Military Justice for any offense that could 
        result in incarceration or separation from the Armed Forces;
            (3) must not be prohibited from possessing a firearm 
        because of conviction of a crime of domestic violence; and
            (4) must meet such service-related qualification 
        requirements for the use of firearms, as established by the 
        Secretary of the military department concerned.
    (d) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' includes 
the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any 
territory or possession of the United States.
                                 <all>
