[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3510 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3510

To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security to develop a cybersecurity strategy for the 
        Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 15, 2015

 Mr. Richmond introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Secretary of 
     Homeland Security to develop a cybersecurity strategy for the 
        Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Homeland Security 
Cybersecurity Strategy Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of title II of the Homeland Security 
Act (6 U.S.C. 141 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 230. CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall develop a departmental 
strategy to carry out cybersecurity responsibilities as set forth in 
law.
    ``(b) Contents.--The strategy required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            ``(1) Strategic and operational goals and priorities to 
        successfully execute the full range of the Secretary's 
        cybersecurity responsibilities.
            ``(2) Information on the programs, policies, and activities 
        that are required to successfully execute the full range of the 
        Secretary's cybersecurity responsibilities, including programs, 
        policies, and activities in furtherance of the following:
                    ``(A) Cybersecurity functions set forth in the 
                second section 226 (relating to the national 
                cybersecurity and communications integration center).
                    ``(B) Cybersecurity investigations capabilities.
                    ``(C) Cybersecurity research and development.
                    ``(D) Engagement with international cybersecurity 
                partners.
    ``(c) Considerations.--In developing the strategy required under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) consider--
                    ``(A) the cybersecurity strategy for the Homeland 
                Security Enterprise published by the Secretary in 
                November 2011;
                    ``(B) the Department of Homeland Security Fiscal 
                Years 2014-2018 Strategic Plan; and
                    ``(C) the most recent Quadrennial Homeland Security 
                Review issued pursuant to section 707; and
            ``(2) include information on the roles and responsibilities 
        of components and offices of the Department, to the extent 
        practicable, to carry out such strategy.
    ``(d) Implementation Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the 
development of the strategy required under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall issue an implementation plan for the strategy that 
includes the following:
            ``(1) Strategic objectives and corresponding tasks.
            ``(2) Projected timelines and costs for such tasks.
            ``(3) Metrics to evaluate performance of such tasks.
    ``(e) Congressional Oversight.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate 
for assessment the following:
            ``(1) A copy of the strategy required under subsection (a) 
        upon issuance.
            ``(2) A copy of the implementation plan required under 
        subsection (d) upon issuance, together with detailed 
        information on any associated legislative or budgetary 
        proposals.
    ``(f) Prohibition on Reorganization.--In the event that the 
strategy required under subsection (a) or implementation plan required 
under subsection (d) includes actions to reorganize departmental 
components or offices, such actions may not be executed without prior 
congressional authorization.
    ``(g) Classified Information.--The strategy required under 
subsection (a) shall be in an unclassified form but may contain a 
classified annex.
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Cybersecurity risk.--The term `cybersecurity risk' 
        has the meaning given such term in the second section 226, 
        relating to the national cybersecurity and communications 
        integration center.
            ``(2) Homeland security enterprise.--The term `Homeland 
        Security Enterprise' means relevant governmental and 
        nongovernmental entities involved in homeland security, 
        including Federal, State, local, and tribal government 
        officials, private sector representatives, academics, and other 
        policy experts.
            ``(3) Incident.--The term `incident' has the meaning given 
        such term in the second section 226, relating to the national 
        cybersecurity and communications integration center.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by adding at the end of 
the list of items for subtitle C of title II the following new item:

``Sec. 230. Cybersecurity strategy.''.
    (c) Amendment to Definition.--Paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of 
the second section 226 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
148; relating to the national cybersecurity and communications 
integration center) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) Incident.--The term `incident' means an occurrence 
        that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful 
        authority, the integrity, confidentiality, or availability of 
        information on an information system, or actually or imminently 
        jeopardizes, without lawful authority, an information 
        system.''.
                                 <all>
