[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4882 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4882

To establish the Cesar Chavez National Historical Park in the States of 
            California and Arizona, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 23, 2016

Mr. Ruiz (for himself and Mr. Grijalva) introduced the following bill; 
        which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish the Cesar Chavez National Historical Park in the States of 
            California and Arizona, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cesar Chavez National Historical 
Park Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Cesar E. Chavez National Monument was established 
        by Presidential Proclamation 8884 on October 8, 2012, for the 
        purposes of protecting and interpreting the nationally 
        significant resources associated with the property in Keene, 
        California, known as Nuestra Senora Reina de la Paz.
            (2) Nuestra Senora Reina de la Paz served as the national 
        headquarters of the United Farm Workers movement, and was the 
        home and workplace of Cesar Chavez, his family, union members, 
        and supporters.
            (3) While Cesar E. Chavez National Monument marks the 
        extraordinary achievements and contributions to the history of 
        the United States by Cesar Chavez and the farm worker movement, 
        there are other significant sites in California and Arizona 
        that are important to the story of the farm worker movement.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to establish the Cesar 
Chavez National Historical Park--
            (1) to help preserve, protect, and interpret the nationally 
        significant resources associated with Cesar Chavez and the farm 
        worker movement;
            (2) to interpret and provide for a broader understanding of 
        the extraordinary achievements and contributions to the history 
        of the United Sates made by Cesar Chavez and the farm worker 
        movement; and
            (3) to support and enhance the network of sites and 
        resources associated with Cesar Chavez and the farm worker 
        movement.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this section:
            (1) Historical park.--The term ``historical park'' means 
        the Cesar Chavez National Historical Park established by 
        section 4(a).
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled, ``___'', 
        numbered ___, and dated ___, __.
            (3) Route.--The term ``route'' means the ``American Farm 
        Worker Movement Interpretive Route'' established by section 5.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Interior.
            (5) States.--The term ``States'' means--
                    (A) the State of California; and
                    (B) the State of Arizona.

SEC. 4. CESAR CHAVEZ NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the States a unit of 
the National Park System to be known as the ``Cesar Chavez National 
Historical Park''.
    (b) Boundary.--The boundary of the historical park shall include 
the following areas as generally depicted on the map:
            (1) The Forty Acres and Filipino Community Hall in Delano, 
        California.
            (2) Cesar E. Chavez National Monument, which includes La 
        Nuestra Senora Reina de la Paz, in Keene, California.
            (3) McDonnell Hall in San Jose, California.
            (4) Santa Rita Center in Phoenix, Arizona.
    (c) Availability of Map.--The map shall be available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service, 
Department of Interior.
    (d) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary may acquire land and interests 
in land that are within the boundary of the historical park by 
donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
    (e) Abolishment of Cesar E. Chavez National Monument.--
            (1) In general.--Cesar E. Chavez National Monument is 
        hereby abolished and the lands and interests therein are 
        incorporated within and made part of the historical park. Any 
        funds available for purposes of the monument shall be available 
        for purposes of the historical park.
            (2) References.--Any reference in a law (other than in this 
        Act), regulation, document, record, map or other paper of the 
        United States to Cesar E. Chavez National Monument shall be 
        considered a reference to the historical park.
    (f) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        historical park in accordance with this section, and the laws 
        generally applicable to units of the National Park System, 
        including--
                    (A) those sections of title 54, United States Code, 
                formerly part of the Act of August 25, 1916 (commonly 
                known as the National Park System Organic Act); and
                    (B) sections 320101 through 320106 and section 
                309101 of title 54, United States Code.
            (2) Interpretation.--The Secretary may provide staff and 
        technical assistance for the purpose of interpreting historic 
        sites, museums, and resources on lands not administered by the 
        Secretary relating to the life of Cesar Chavez and the history 
        of the farm worker movement.
            (3) Cooperative agreements.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may enter into 
                cooperative agreements with the States, local 
                governments, public and private organizations, and 
                individuals--
                            (i) to mark, interpret, preserve, and 
                        restore nationally significant historic or 
                        cultural resources relating to the life of 
                        Cesar Chavez or the history of the farm worker 
                        movement within the boundaries of the 
                        historical park, if the agreement provides for 
                        reasonable public access;
                            (ii) to conduct research relating to the 
                        life of Cesar Chavez or the history of the farm 
                        worker movement; or
                            (iii) to design, construct, operate, or 
                        maintain National Park Service visitor, 
                        interpretive, or administrative facilities for 
                        the historical park.
                    (B) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                            (i) Federal share.--The Federal share of 
                        the total cost of an activity carried out under 
                        this paragraph shall not exceed 50 percent.
                            (ii) Form of non-federal share.--The non-
                        Federal share of the cost of carrying out an 
                        activity under this paragraph may be in the 
                        form of in-kind contributions or goods or 
                        services, fairly valued.
    (g) General Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which funds are made available to carry out this section, the 
        Secretary shall prepare a general management plan for the 
        historical park in accordance with section 100502 of title 54, 
        United States Code.
            (2) Additional sites.--The general management plan shall 
        include a determination of whether there are additional 
        representative sites in the States that should be added to the 
        historical park or sites in the rest of the United States that 
        relate to the farm worker movement that should be linked to and 
        interpreted at the historical park.
            (3) Consultation.--The general management plan shall be 
        prepared in consultation with--
                    (A) owners of properties that are included within 
                the boundaries of the historical park; and
                    (B) appropriate Federal, State, public and private 
                organizations and individuals, including--
                            (i) the National Chavez Center; and
                            (ii) the Cesar Chavez Foundation.

SEC. 5. AMERICAN FARM WORKER MOVEMENT INTERPRETIVE ROUTE.

    (a) Establishment of Route.--The Secretary, with the concurrence of 
the agency having jurisdiction over the relevant roads, trails, and 
properties, may designate a vehicular tour route known as the 
``American Farm Worker Movement Interpretive Route'' to link properties 
in the States that are historically and thematically associated with 
Cesar Chavez and the farm worker movement.
    (b) Elements of Route.--Subject to the consent of the owner of the 
property, the Secretary may designate as an official stop on the 
route--
            (1) all units and programs of the historical park relating 
        to the life of Cesar Chavez and the history of the farm worker 
        movement;
            (2) other Federal, State, local, and privately owned 
        properties that the Secretary determines have a verifiable 
        connection to Cesar Chavez and the farm worker movement; and
            (3) other governmental and nongovernmental facilities and 
        programs of an educational, commemorative, research, or 
        interpretive nature that the Secretary determines to be related 
        to Cesar Chavez and the history of the farm worker movement.
    (c) Administration of Route.--The route shall be administered by 
the Secretary.
    (d) Activities.--To facilitate the establishment of the route and 
the dissemination of information regarding the route, the Secretary 
may--
            (1) work with interested entities and individuals to mark, 
        interpret and preserve sites associated with Cesar Chavez and 
        the farm worker movement;
            (2) produce and disseminate appropriate educational 
        materials regarding the route, such as handbooks, maps, 
        exhibits, signs, interpretive guides, and electronic 
        information;
            (3) coordinate the management, planning, and standards of 
        the route in partnership with participating properties, other 
        Federal agencies, and State and local governments;
            (4) create and adopt an official uniform symbol or device 
        to mark the route; and
            (5) issue guidelines for the use of the symbol or device 
        adopted under paragraph (4).
                                 <all>
