[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3565 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3565

To expand the boundary of the California Coastal National Monument, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 18, 2015

  Mrs. Capps (for herself, Ms. Eshoo, and Mr. Huffman) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural 
                               Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To expand the boundary of the California Coastal National Monument, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``California Coastal National Monument 
Expansion Act''.

SEC. 2. PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Presidential Proclamation Number 7264, dated January 
        11, 2000 (65 Fed. Reg. 2821), designated over 20,000 islands, 
        rocks, and pinnacles along the approximtely 1,100-mile 
        California coastline as the California Coastal National 
        Monument to protect the biological treasures situated offshore 
        on thousands of unappropriated or unreserved areas of land 
        owned or controlled by the Federal Government within 12 
        nautical miles of the shoreline.
            (2) Presidential Proclamation Number 9089, dated March 11, 
        2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 14603), expanded the boundary of the 
        Monument to include 1,665 acres of Federal land administered by 
        the Bureau of Land Management along the Northern California 
        coastline in Mendocino County, commonly known as the ``Point 
        Arena-Stornetta Unit''.
            (3) The Point Arena-Stornetta Unit is the first onshore 
        expansion of the Monument.
            (4) Numerous governmental entities, community 
        organizations, businesses, and individuals have made 
        significant contributions to maintain the unique character, 
        management, and preservation of the individual parcels of 
        Federal land along the California coast.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to protect, conserve, and enhance for the benefit and 
        enjoyment of present and future generations the nationally 
        significant historical, natural, cultural, scientific, 
        educational, and scenic values of the Federal land along and 
        adjacent to the shoreline of the State of California, and for 
        the purposes for which the Monument was designated; and
            (2) to support the land management partnerships of the 
        Bureau of Land Management with the State of California, local 
        governments, communities, and stakeholders, and to enhance the 
        relationships those entities have with the Bureau of Land 
        Management and Federal land, as appropriate.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means--
                    (A) the Federal land comprising approximately 13 
                acres in Humboldt County, California, identified as 
                ``Trinidad Head'' on the map;
                    (B) the Federal land comprising approximately 5,780 
                acres in Santa Cruz County, California, identified as 
                ``Cotoni-Coast Dairies Public Land'' on the map;
                    (C) the Federal land comprising approximately 20 
                acres in San Luis Obispo County, California, identified 
                as ``Piedras Blancas Light Station Outstanding Natural 
                Area'' on the map; and
                    (D) the Federal land comprising approximately 8 
                acres in Humboldt County, California, identified as 
                ``Lighthouse Ranch'' on the map.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the Bureau of Land 
        Management map entitled ``California Coastal National Monument 
        Addition'' and dated July 24, 2015.
            (3) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the California 
        Coastal National Monument established by Presidential 
        Proclamation 7264.
            (4) Presidential proclamation 7264.--The term 
        ``Presidential Proclamation 7264'' means Presidential 
        Proclamation Number 7264, dated January 11, 2000 (65 Fed. Reg. 
        2821), creating the Monument.
            (5) Presidential proclamation 9089.--The term 
        ``Presidential Proclamation 9089'' means Presidential 
        Proclamation Number 9089, dated March 11, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 
        14603), expanding the Monument.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 4. EXPANSION OF CALIFORNIA COASTAL NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Monument is expanded to 
include the Federal land.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a map and 
        boundary description of the Federal land added to the Monument 
        by this Act.
            (2) Force and effect.--The map and boundary description 
        developed under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and 
        effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary 
        may correct any minor errors in the map and boundary 
        descriptions.
            (3) Availability of map and boundary description.--The map 
        and boundary description developed under paragraph (1) shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights and deed 
restrictions in place as of the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall manage the Federal land added to the Monument by this 
Act--
            (1) as part of the Monument; and
            (2) in accordance with Presidential Proclamations 7264 and 
        9089.
    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize an 
        amendment, or multiple amendments as applicable for the 
        individual Federal land areas, to the Monument management plan 
        for the long-term protection and management of the Federal land 
        added to the Monument by this Act.
            (2) Requirements.--Any amendment under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) be developed in consultation with, at a 
                minimum--
                            (i) affected State, tribal, and local 
                        governments;
                            (ii) the public; and
                            (iii) interested Federal agencies;
                    (B) describe the appropriate uses and management of 
                the Federal land, consistent with this Act;
                    (C) contain individual plans and considerations 
                specific to each individual Federal land area;
                    (D) take into consideration existing uses of the 
                Federal land;
                    (E) include components regarding stewardship, 
                visitor services, facilities management and 
                maintenance, public access, traffic, public safety, 
                emergency services, and law enforcement;
                    (F) include a component regarding potential 
                education and interpretation activities, with 
                recognition of the specific character and history of 
                each Federal land area; and
                    (G) include a component regarding Native American 
                cultural resources management, with emphasis on the 
                preservation of resources within the individual Federal 
                land areas.
            (3) Interim management.--Until the completion of the 
        management plan, the Secretary shall manage the Federal land in 
        accordance with the purposes described in section 2(b).
    (c) Motorized and Mechanized Transport.--Except as needed for 
emergency or authorized administrative purposes, in the Monument--
            (1) motorized vehicle use shall be permitted only on 
        designated roads; and
            (2) mechanized vehicle use shall be permitted only on roads 
        and trails designated for the use of those vehicles.
    (d) Incorporation of Land and Interests.--
            (1) Authority.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        Secretary may acquire non-Federal land or interests in land 
        within or adjacent to the Federal land added to the Monument by 
        this Act only through exchange, donation, or purchase from a 
        willing seller.
            (2) Management.--Any land or interests in land within or 
        adjacent to the Federal land added to the Monument by this Act 
        acquired by the United States after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act shall be--
                    (A) added to and administered as part of the 
                Monument; and
                    (B) with respect to inclusion in the management 
                plan, taken into consideration through an appropriate 
                amendment to that plan.
            (3) Exception.--An addition to the Cotoni-Coast Dairies 
        unit of Federal land referred to in section 3(1)(C) shall be 
        limited to the acreage contained within the boundary of the 
        Monument, as established by this Act.
    (e) Existing Cooperative Management Agreements.--Any cooperative 
management agreement in existence on the date of enactment of this Act 
between the Federal land areas and other land management entities shall 
not be affected due to the enactment of this Act.
    (f) Cooperative Agreements With Local Governments and Entities.--To 
better implement the management plan and to continue the successful 
partnerships with local communities and land administered by the State 
of California and other partners, the Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements with the appropriate Federal, State, and local 
agencies and organizations pursuant to section 307(b) of the Federal 
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1737(b)).
    (g) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
land within the Monument and all land and interests in land acquired 
for the Monument by the United States after the date of the enactment 
of this Act are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (h) Native American Uses and Interests.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent 
        permitted by law and in consultation with affected Indian 
        tribes, ensure the protection of Indian sacred sites and 
        traditional cultural properties in the Monument and provide 
        access by members of Indian tribes for traditional cultural and 
        customary uses, consistent with Public Law 95-341 (commonly 
        known as the ``American Indian Religious Freedom Act''; 42 
        U.S.C. 1996) and Executive Order 13007 (42 U.S.C. 1996 note; 
        relating to Indian sacred sites).
            (2) Relationship to other rights.--Notwithstanding 
        paragraph (1), nothing in this Act enlarges, diminishes, or 
        modifies the rights of any Indian tribe or Indian religious 
        community.
    (i) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--The expansion of the Monument by this Act 
        is not intended to lead to the establishment of protective 
        perimeters or buffer zones around the Federal land included in 
        the Monument by this Act.
            (2) Activities outside monument.--The fact that activities 
        outside the Monument can be seen or heard within the Federal 
        land added to the Monument by this Act shall not, of itself, 
        preclude those activities or uses up to the boundary of the 
        Monument.
    (j) Grazing.--Nothing in this Act affects the grazing of livestock 
within the Federal land described in section 3(1)(C).
    (k) National Landscape Conservation System.--The Secretary shall 
manage the Monument as part of the National Landscape Conservation 
System.

SEC. 6. ADVISORY COUNCILS.

    (a) Establishment.--Not less than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish an advisory 
council for each unit of Federal land described in subparagraphs (A) 
through (D) of section 3(1) within the Monument.
    (b) Duties.--The advisory councils shall advise the Secretary with 
respect to the preparation and implementation of the management plan 
under section 5(b) (or amendments to an existing applicable management 
plan) for each relevant unit of Federal land.
    (c) Applicable Law.--The advisory councils shall be subject to--
            (1) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.);
            (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (3) all other applicable laws (including regulations).
    (d) Members.--Each advisory council shall include 7 members, to be 
appointed by the Secretary, of whom, to the maximum extent 
practicable--
            (1) 1 shall be appointed after taking into consideration 
        the recommendations of the local county board of supervisors of 
        the applicable unit of Federal land; and
            (2) 6 shall--
                    (A) reside within a reasonable proximity to the 
                applicable unit of Federal land; and
                    (B) demonstrate experience that reflects--
                            (i) the purposes for which the Monument was 
                        established; and
                            (ii) the interest of the stakeholders that 
                        are affected by the planning and management of 
                        the unit of Federal land, which may include 
                        stakeholders representing private land-
                        ownership, Native American interests, 
                        environmental, recreational, economic, or other 
                        non-Federal land interests.
    (e) Representation.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
memberships of the advisory councils are fairly balanced with respect 
to the points of view represented, and the functions to be performed, 
by each advisory council.
    (f) Quorum.--
            (1) In general.--Four members of an advisory council shall 
        constitute a quorum.
            (2) Unappointed members.--The operation of an advisory 
        committee shall not be affected if--
                    (A) a member has not yet been appointed to the 
                advisory committee; but
                    (B) a quorum has been attained.
    (g) Chairperson and Procedures.--Each advisory council shall--
            (1) elect a chairperson from among the members of the 
        advisory council; and
            (2) establish such rules and procedures as the advisory 
        council determines to be necessary or appropriate.
    (h) Service Without Compensation.--The members of each advisory 
council shall serve without pay.
    (i) Termination.--The advisory councils shall terminate--
            (1) on the date that is 2 years after the date on which the 
        management plan (or amendment to an existing management plan) 
        is officially adopted by the Secretary; or
            (2) on such later date as the Secretary considers to be 
        appropriate.
    (j) Existing Advisory Bodies.--The Secretary may elect not to 
establish an advisory council for a unit of Federal land if a regularly 
scheduled, organized public forum or entity exists--
            (1) of which the Bureau of Land Management is an active or 
        leading participant; and
            (2) that fulfills the duties described in subsection (b).

SEC. 7. ROCKS AND SMALL ISLANDS ALONG COAST OF ORANGE COUNTY, 
              CALIFORNIA.

    (a) California Coastal National Monument.--The Act of February 18, 
1931 (46 Stat. 1172, chapter 226), is amended by striking ``be, and the 
same are hereby, temporarily reserved'' and all that follows through 
``United States'' and inserting ``are part of the California Coastal 
National Monument and shall be administered as part of the Monument''.
    (b) Repeal of Reservation.--Section 31 of the Act of May 28, 1935 
(49 Stat. 309, chapter 155), is repealed.
                                 <all>
