[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6200 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6200

  To provide for the issuance of a Puget Sound Restoration Semipostal 
                                 Stamp.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 28, 2016

   Mr. Heck of Washington (for himself, Mr. Kilmer, and Ms. DelBene) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
 Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on 
  Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide for the issuance of a Puget Sound Restoration Semipostal 
                                 Stamp.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ongoing Recovery and Conservation 
Awareness Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. PUGET SOUND RESTORATION STAMP.

    (a) In General.--In order to afford a convenient way for members of 
the public to contribute to funding for the operations supported by the 
Puget Sound Action Agenda, as described under the heading 
``Environmental Programs and Management'' in the conference report 
accompanying the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-
74), the United States Postal Service shall issue a semipostal stamp 
(referred to in this Act as the ``Puget Sound Restoration Semipostal 
Stamp'') in accordance with the provisions of this section.
    (b) Cost.--The Puget Sound Restoration Semipostal Stamp shall be 
offered at a cost equal to the cost of mailing a letter weighing 1 
ounce or less at the nonautomation single-piece first-ounce letter 
rate, in effect at the time of purchase, plus a differential of not 
less than 25 percent.
    (c) Other Terms and Conditions.--The issuance and sale of the Puget 
Sound Restoration Semipostal Stamp shall be governed by the provisions 
of section 416 of title 39, United States Code, and regulations issued 
under such section, subject to subsection (b) and the following:
            (1) Disposition of proceeds.--
                    (A) In general.--All amounts becoming available 
                from the sale of the Puget Sound Restoration Semipostal 
                Stamp shall be transferred to the Environmental 
                Protection Agency for the purpose of funding the 
                operations of the Agenda described in subsection (a), 
                through payments which shall be made at least twice a 
                year.
                    (B) Proceeds not to be offset.--In accordance with 
                section 416(d)(4) of such title 39, amounts becoming 
                available from the sale of the Puget Sound Restoration 
                Semipostal Stamp (as so determined) shall not be taken 
                into account in any decision relating to the level of 
                appropriations or other Federal funding to be furnished 
                in any year to--
                            (i) the Environmental Protection Agency; or
                            (ii) the Agenda identified in subsection 
                        (a).
            (2) Duration.--The Puget Sound Restoration Semipostal Stamp 
        shall be made available to the public for a period of at least 
        5 years, beginning no later than 12 months after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Stamp depictions.--Stamps issued under this Act shall 
        depict images of the Puget Sound and marine life native to the 
        Sound.
            (4) Limitation.--The Puget Sound Restoration Semipostal 
        Stamp shall not be subject to, or taken into account for 
        purposes of applying, any limitation under section 416(e)(1)(C) 
        of such title 39.
    (d) Definition.--For purposes of this Act, the term ``semipostal 
stamp'' refers to a stamp described in section 416(a)(1) of title 39, 
United States Code.
                                 <all>
