[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3019 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3019

   To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
  Veterans Affairs to furnish, at the request of an eligible veteran, 
  nursing home care and hospital care at State licensed or certified 
                      residential care facilities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 10, 2015

    Ms. DeLauro (for herself, Ms. Esty, Mr. Courtney, Mr. Larson of 
 Connecticut, and Mr. Himes) introduced the following bill; which was 
             referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
  Veterans Affairs to furnish, at the request of an eligible veteran, 
  nursing home care and hospital care at State licensed or certified 
                      residential care facilities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans Residential Care Choice 
Act''.

SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS PROVISION OF NURSING HOME CARE 
              AND HOSPITAL CARE AT STATE LICENSED OR CERTIFIED 
              RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1720H. State licensed or certified residential care facilities
    ``(a) In General.--At the request of an eligible veteran for whom 
the Secretary is required to provide domiciliary, nursing home, adult 
day health, or hospital care under this chapter, or whom the Secretary 
determines is in need of such care, the Secretary may place the veteran 
in a State licensed or certified residential care facility that meets 
Department standards, at the expense of the United States, pursuant to 
a contract or agreement entered into between the Secretary and the 
facility for such purpose, if the cost of providing such care to such 
veteran through such facility is less than the cost of providing such 
care to the veteran through any other available option. A veteran who 
is placed in a such a facility under this section shall agree, as a 
condition of such placement, to accept home health services furnished 
by the Secretary under section 1717 of this title.
    ``(b) Eligibility.--For purposes of this section, an eligible 
veteran is a veteran with a service-connected disability rated at 70 
percent or more disabling.
    ``(c) Definition of State Licensed or Certified Residential Care 
Facility.--In this section, the term `State licensed or certified 
residential care facility' means any assisted living facility, basic 
care facility, community residence, enriched housing program, home for 
the aged, personal care home, shared housing establishment, or other 
similar licensed or certified facility.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to 
such subchapter the following new item:

``1720H. State licensed or certified residential care facilities.''.
    (c) Applicability.--Section 1720H of title 38, United States Code, 
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall 
apply with respect to any veteran who is eligible under subsection (b) 
of that section, including such a veteran who, as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act, resides in a State licensed or certified 
residential care facility, as such term is defined in subsection (c) of 
such section.
                                 <all>
