[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3889 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3889

  To require certain practitioners authorized to prescribe controlled 
              substances to complete continuing education.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            November 3, 2015

    Ms. Clarke of New York introduced the following bill; which was 
 referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
    the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To require certain practitioners authorized to prescribe controlled 
              substances to complete continuing education.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Safer Prescribing of Controlled 
Substances Act''.

SEC. 2. CONTINUING EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN PRACTITIONERS 
              PRESCRIBING CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.

    Section 303 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 823) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (f), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``The Attorney General shall register'' and 
        inserting ``Subject to subsection (i), the Attorney General 
        shall register''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i)(1) In this subsection, the term `covered practitioner' means 
a practitioner that is not a hospital, pharmacy, or veterinarian.
    ``(2) As a condition of granting or renewing the registration of a 
covered practitioner under this part to dispense, or conduct research 
with, controlled substances in schedule II, III, IV, or V, the Attorney 
General shall require the covered practitioner to complete training 
(through classroom situations, seminars at professional society 
meetings, electronic communications, or otherwise) that the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services determines meets the requirements under 
paragraph (3).
    ``(3) The training provided for purposes of paragraph (2) shall, at 
a minimum, expose covered practitioners to--
            ``(A) best practices for pain management, including 
        alternatives to prescribing controlled substances and other 
        alternative therapies to decrease the use of opioids;
            ``(B) responsible prescribing of pain medications, as 
        described in Federal prescriber guidelines for nonmalignant 
        pain;
            ``(C) methods for diagnosing, treating, and managing a 
        substance use disorder, including the use of medications 
        approved by the Food and Drug Administration and evidence-based 
        nonpharmacological therapies;
            ``(D) linking patients to evidence-based treatment for 
        substance use disorders; and
            ``(E) tools to manage adherence and diversion of controlled 
        substances, including prescription drug monitoring programs, 
        drug screening, informed consent, overdose education, and the 
        use of opioid overdose antagonists.
    ``(4) The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration 
shall establish or support the establishment of not less than 1 
training module that meets the requirements under paragraph (3) that is 
provided--
            ``(A) to any covered practitioner registered or applying 
        for a registration under this part to dispense, or conduct 
        research with, controlled substances in schedule II, III, IV, 
        or V;
            ``(B) online; and
            ``(C) free of charge.
    ``(5) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish, 
maintain, and periodically update a publically available database 
providing information relating to training modules that meet the 
requirements under paragraph (3).
    ``(6) Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this 
subsection, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall evaluate 
and make publically available a report describing how exposure to the 
training required under this subsection has changed prescribing 
patterns of controlled substances.''.
                                 <all>
