[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4058 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4058

    To require that in cases of health insurance coverage cancelled 
 pursuant to requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act cancellation notices provided to enrollees include a statement 
               such cancellation is because of such Act.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 18, 2015

   Mr. Shuster (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Graves of Missouri, Mr. 
    Massie, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
Abraham, and Mr. King of Iowa) introduced the following bill; which was 
            referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To require that in cases of health insurance coverage cancelled 
 pursuant to requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act cancellation notices provided to enrollees include a statement 
               such cancellation is because of such Act.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Obamacare Full Disclosure Act''.

SEC. 2. HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE CANCELLATION NOTICES.

    Beginning 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, in 
the case of a cancellation notice form provided by the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services for use as a template form for a 
cancellation notice to be used by a group health plan or a health 
insurance issuer offering health insurance coverage in the group or 
individual market (as such terms are defined in section 2791 of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-91)) to notify enrollees of 
such plan or coverage is being cancelled, if such cancellation is 
because the plan or coverage does not meet the requirements applied to 
such a plan or coverage pursuant to title I of the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act or because of financial losses incurred by the 
sponsor of such plan or such issuer because of such requirements, such 
template form shall include a statement that such plan or coverage was 
cancelled because of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. 
The references in the previous sentence to a group health plan and to a 
health insurance issuer offering health insurance coverage in the group 
or individual market shall be applied as including a reference to a 
qualified nonprofit health insurance issuer offering a qualified health 
plan under the CO-OP program under section 1322 of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18042).
                                 <all>
