[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4880 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4880

 To prohibit any regulation, rule, guidance, recommendation, or policy 
 issued after May 15, 2015, that limits the sale or donation of excess 
property of the Federal Government to State and local agencies for law 
            enforcement activities, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 23, 2016

Mr. Ratcliffe (for himself, Mr. Hensarling, Mr. Olson, Mr. Farenthold, 
 Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
Calvert, Mr. Hurt of Virginia, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Barr, and 
 Mr. Meadows) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To prohibit any regulation, rule, guidance, recommendation, or policy 
 issued after May 15, 2015, that limits the sale or donation of excess 
property of the Federal Government to State and local agencies for law 
            enforcement activities, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting Lives Using Surplus 
Equipment Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. GENERAL PROHIBITION.

    No regulation, rule, guidance, recommendation, or policy issued 
after May 15, 2015, that limits the sale or donation of excess property 
of the Federal Government, including excess property of the Department 
of Defense, to State and local agencies for law enforcement activities 
(whether pursuant to section 2576a of title 10, United States Code, or 
any other provision of law, or as a condition on the use of Federal 
funds) shall have any force or effect unless enacted into law by 
Congress.

SEC. 3. LIMITATION ON FEDERAL FUNDS.

    No agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government may use any 
Federal funds, fees, or resources to implement such regulation, rule, 
guidance, recommendation, or policy.

SEC. 4. RETURN OR REISSUE OF EQUIPMENT RECALLED OR SEIZED.

    Any property recalled or seized on or after May 15, 2015, pursuant 
to a regulation, rule, guidance, recommendation, or policy described in 
section 1 shall be returned, replaced, or re-issued to the State or 
local agency from which it was recalled or seized, at no cost to such 
agency, as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
                                 <all>
