[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 305 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 40
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 305

                          [Report No. 114-146]

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
1314) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a right 
 to an administrative appeal relating to adverse determinations of tax-
exempt status of certain organizations, and providing for consideration 
 of the Senate amendments to the bill (H.R. 644) to amend the Internal 
 Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend and expand the charitable 
             deduction for contributions of food inventory.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                June 11 (legislative day, June 10), 2015

   Mr. Sessions, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
1314) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a right 
 to an administrative appeal relating to adverse determinations of tax-
exempt status of certain organizations, and providing for consideration 
 of the Senate amendments to the bill (H.R. 644) to amend the Internal 
 Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend and expand the charitable 
             deduction for contributions of food inventory.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 1314) to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a right to an 
administrative appeal relating to adverse determinations of tax-exempt 
status of certain organizations, with the Senate amendment thereto, and 
to consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a 
motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Ways and Means or his 
designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment. The Senate 
amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall 
be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its 
adoption without intervening motion. The question of adoption of the 
motion shall be divided as follows: first, concurring in section 212 of 
the Senate amendment; second, concurring in the matter comprising the 
remainder of title II of the Senate amendment; and third, concurring in 
the matter preceding title II of the Senate amendment. The portion of 
the divided question on concurring in section 212 of the Senate 
amendment shall be considered as adopted. The Chair shall first put the 
question on the portion of the divided question on concurring in the 
matter comprising the remainder of title II of the Senate amendment. If 
any portion of the divided question fails of adoption, then the House 
shall be considered to have made no disposition of the Senate 
amendment.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 644) to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend and expand the charitable 
deduction for contributions of food inventory, with the Senate 
amendments thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention 
of any point of order, a single motion offered by the chair of the 
Committee on Ways and Means or his designee that the House: (1) concur 
in the Senate amendment to the title; and (2) concur in the Senate 
amendment to the text with the amendment printed in part A of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution modified 
by the amendment printed in part B of that report. The Senate 
amendments and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall 
be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its 
adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the 
question. If the motion is adopted, then it shall be in order for the 
chair of the Committee on Ways and Means or his designee to move that 
the House insist on its amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 644 
and request a conference with the Senate thereon.
                                                  House Calendar No. 40

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 305

                          [Report No. 114-146]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
1314) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a right 
 to an administrative appeal relating to adverse determinations of tax-
exempt status of certain organizations, and providing for consideration 
 of the Senate amendments to the bill (H.R. 644) to amend the Internal 
 Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend and expand the charitable 
             deduction for contributions of food inventory.

_______________________________________________________________________

                June 11 (legislative day, June 10), 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
