[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1304 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1304

  To require the Secretary of Energy to establish a pilot competitive 
 grant program for the development of a skilled energy workforce, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 12, 2015

 Ms. Cantwell introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To require the Secretary of Energy to establish a pilot competitive 
 grant program for the development of a skilled energy workforce, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``21st Century Energy Workforce Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the energy sector is the third-largest industry in the 
        United States;
            (2) 1,500,000 new skilled workers will be needed in the 
        energy sector over the next 15 years; and
            (3) a skilled workforce is a critical component of ensuring 
        the growth of the energy sector in the United States.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the National Center of 
        Excellence for the 21st Century Workforce Advisory Board 
        established under section 4(a).
            (2) Community college.--The term ``community college'' 
        means a junior or community college (as defined in section 
        312(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1058(f))).
            (3) Program.--The term ``program'' means the pilot program 
        established under section 5(a).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (5) Veterans service organization.--The term ``veterans 
        service organization'' means an organization recognized by the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the representation of 
        veterans under section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 4. NATIONAL CENTER OF EXCELLENCE FOR THE 21ST CENTURY WORKFORCE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish a nationwide 
advisory board, to be known as the ``National Center of Excellence for 
the 21st Century Workforce Advisory Board'', to foster strategic 
vision, guidance, and networks for the energy industry.
    (b) Representatives.--The members of the Board shall consist of 
energy sector stakeholders, including--
            (1) representatives of relevant industries;
            (2) experts in labor, economics, and workforce development;
            (3) representatives of States and units of local 
        government;
            (4) representatives of elementary and secondary education 
        and postsecondary education; and
            (5) representatives of labor organizations.
    (c) Purposes.--The purposes of the Board are--
            (1) to support and develop training and science education 
        programs that--
                    (A) meet the industry and labor needs of the energy 
                sector; and
                    (B) provide opportunities for students to become 
                qualified for placement in traditional and clean energy 
                sector jobs;
            (2) to align apprenticeship programs and industry 
        certifications to further develop succession planning in the 
        energy sector;
            (3) to integrate educational standards to develop 
        foundational skills for elementary and secondary education and 
        postsecondary education to create a pipeline between education 
        and career; and
            (4) to support the replication of existing model energy 
        curricula.

SEC. 5. ENERGY WORKFORCE PILOT GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor 
and the Secretary of Education, shall establish a pilot program to 
award grants on a competitive basis to eligible entities for job 
training to obtain an industry-recognized credential.
    (b) Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, an entity shall be a public or nonprofit organization that--
            (1) includes an advisory board of proportional 
        participation, as determined by the Secretary, of relevant 
        organizations, including--
                    (A) relevant energy industry organizations, 
                including public and private employers;
                    (B) labor organizations; and
                    (C) elementary and secondary education and 
                postsecondary education organizations;
            (2) demonstrates experience in implementing and operating 
        job training and education programs;
            (3) demonstrates the ability to recruit and support 
        individuals who plan to work in the energy industry in the 
        successful completion of relevant job training and education 
        programs; and
            (4) provides students who complete the job training and 
        education program with an industry-recognized credential.
    (c) Applications.--Eligible entities desiring a grant under this 
section shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in 
such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may 
require.
    (d) Priority.--In selecting eligible entities to receive grants 
under this section, the Secretary shall prioritize applicants that--
            (1) house the job training and education programs in--
                    (A) a community college or institution of higher 
                education that includes basic science and math 
                education in the curriculum of the community college, 
                institution of higher education; or
                    (B) an apprenticeship program registered with the 
                Department of Labor;
            (2) work with the Secretary of Defense or veterans 
        organizations to transition members of the Armed Forces and 
        veterans to careers in the energy sector;
            (3) apply as a State or regional consortia to leverage best 
        practices already available in the State or region in which the 
        community college or institution of higher education is 
        located;
            (4) have a State-supported entity included in the 
        application;
            (5) include an apprenticeship program registered with the 
        Department of Labor as part of the job training and education 
        program;
            (6) develop a mentorship program for energy professionals 
        and elementary and secondary education students;
            (7) provide support services and career coaching; or
            (8) provide introductory energy workforce development 
        training.
    (e) Additional Consideration.--In making grants under this section, 
the Secretary shall consider regional diversity.
    (f) Limitation on Applications.--An eligible entity may not submit, 
either individually or as part of a joint application, more than 1 
application for a grant under this section during any 1 fiscal year.
    (g) Limitations on Amount of Grant.--The amount of a grant for any 
1 year shall not exceed $1,000,000.
    (h) Costs.--
            (1) Federal share.--The Federal share of the cost of a job 
        training and education program carried out using a grant under 
        this section shall be not greater than 65 percent.
            (2) Non-federal share.--
                    (A) In general.--The non-Federal share of the cost 
                of a job training and education program carried out 
                using a grant under this section shall consist of not 
                less than 50 percent cash.
                    (B) Limitation.--Not greater than 50 percent of the 
                non-Federal contribution of the total cost of a job 
                training and education program carried out using a 
                grant under this section shall be in the form of in-
                kind contributions of goods or services fairly valued.
    (i) Reduction of Duplication.--Prior to submitting an application 
for a grant under this section, each applicant shall consult with the 
applicable agencies of the Federal Government and coordinate the 
proposed activities of the applicant with existing State and local 
programs.
    (j) Technical Assistance.--The Secretary shall provide technical 
assistance and capacity building to national and State energy 
partnerships, including the entities described in subsection (b)(1), to 
leverage the existing job training and education programs of the 
Department of Energy.
    (k) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to Congress and make 
publicly available on the website of the Department of Energy an annual 
report on the program established under this section, including a 
description of--
            (1) the entities receiving grants;
            (2) the activities carried out using the grants;
            (3) best practices used to leverage the investment of the 
        Federal Government;
            (4) the rate of employment for participants after 
        completing a job training and education program carried out 
        using a grant; and
            (5) an assessment of the results achieved by the program.
    (l) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2016 through 2019.
                                 <all>
