[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4001 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4001

  To make technical amendments to title 18 of the United States Code 
      based on the Law Revision Counsel's footnotes in that title.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 16, 2015

 Mr. Buck (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, and Mr. Conyers) introduced the 
  following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To make technical amendments to title 18 of the United States Code 
      based on the Law Revision Counsel's footnotes in that title.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fix the Footnotes Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this Act an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of title 18, United States 
Code.

SEC. 3. TABLE OF CHAPTERS FOR PART I.

    The table of chapters for part I is amended--
            (1) in the item relating to chapter 11B, by striking 
        ``Weapons'' and inserting ``weapons'';
            (2) in the item relating to chapter 39, by striking ``and 
        combustibles'' and inserting ``and other dangerous articles'';
            (3) by inserting after the item relating to chapter 118 the 
        following new item:

``119. Wire and electronic communications interception and      2510'';
                            interception of oral 
                            communications.
        and
            (4) in the item relating to chapter 63, by inserting ``and 
        other fraud offenses'' after ``Mail fraud''.

SEC. 4. CHAPTER 1.

    (a) Section 20(8) is amended by striking ``25(a)'' and inserting 
``25A''.
    (b) Section 23 is amended by inserting a comma after ``provided''.
    (c) Section 24 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``1974,,'' and inserting ``1974,''; and
            (2) by inserting a comma after ``1954 of this title''.

SEC. 5. CHAPTER 2.

    (a) Section 36(a)(2) is amended by inserting ``or'' before 
``section 1013''.
    (b) Section 37(c) is amended by striking ``2(c)'' and inserting 
``13(c)''.

SEC. 6. CHAPTER 3.

    Section 43(b) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``section'' and inserting ``subsection''; 
        and
            (2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``for'' after 
        ``imprisonment''.

SEC. 7. CHAPTER 7.

    (a) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 7 is amended 
by inserting after the item relating to section 116 the following new 
item:

``117. Domestic assault by an habitual offender.''.
    (b) Section 113(b)(3) is amended by inserting ``, respectively,'' 
after ``have''.

SEC. 8. CHAPTER 11.

    (a) Section 202(a) is amended by striking ``Notwithstanding'' the 
second place it appears and all that follows through ``a Reserve'' and 
inserting ``Notwithstanding sections 502, 2105(d), and 5534 of title 5, 
a Reserve''.
    (b) Section 207(c)(3)(A) is amended by inserting ``of the Social 
Security Act'' after ``1899A''.
    (c) Section 207(j)(7)(B)(ii) is amended by striking ``subsections'' 
and inserting ``subsection''.
    (d) Section 212(c)(4)(B) is amended by inserting ``or'' after 
``borrowers''.

SEC. 9. CHAPTER 11B.

    Section 229D(2) is amended by striking ``or 229D''.

SEC. 10. CHAPTER 23.

    (a) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 23 is amended 
by striking the items relating to sections 438 and 439.
    (b) Section 435 is amended by striking ``shall be fined'' and all 
that follows through ``or both'' and inserting ``shall be fined under 
this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both''.
    (c) Section 436 is amended by striking ``shall be fined'' and all 
that follows through ``or both'' and inserting ``shall be fined under 
this title or imprisoned not more than three years, or both''.
    (d) Section 440 is amended by striking ``shall be fined'' and all 
that follows through ``or both'' and inserting ``shall be fined under 
this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both''.
    (e) Section 441 is amended by striking ``shall be fined'' and all 
that follows through ``or both'' and inserting ``shall be fined under 
this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both''.

SEC. 11. CHAPTER 25.

    (a) Section 486 is amended by striking ``shall be fined'' and all 
that follows through ``or both'' and inserting ``shall be fined under 
this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both''.
    (b) Section 498 is amended by striking ``shall be fined'' and all 
that follows through ``or both'' and inserting ``shall be fined under 
this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both''.
    (c) Section 500 is amended by striking ``Shall be fined'' and all 
that follows through ``or both'' and inserting ``Shall be fined under 
this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both''.
    (d) Section 506(c)(1)(B) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(19 U.S.C. 1396b(v))''; and
            (2) by striking ``benefits''.
    (e) Section 513(a) is amended by striking ``shall be fined'' and 
all that follows through ``or both'' and inserting ``shall be fined 
under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both''.
    (f) Section 513(c)(3)(A) is amended by striking ``916(c)'' and 
inserting ``917(c)''.

SEC. 12. CHAPTER 31.

    (a) Section 655 is amended by striking ``25(a)'' both places it 
appears and inserting ``25A''.
    (b) Section 656 is amended by striking ``25(a)'' and inserting 
``25A''.

SEC. 13. CHAPTER 33.

    (a) Section 704(d)(1) is amended by striking ``section 10'' and 
inserting ``title 10''.
    (b) Section 706a(b) is amended by striking ``section (c)'' and 
inserting ``subsections (c)''.
    (c) Section 716(a)(2) is amended by striking ``official official'' 
and inserting ``official''.
    (d) Section 716(c)(2) is amended by striking ``and'' at the end.

SEC. 14. CHAPTER 40.

    (a) Section 841(t) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(t)'' and all that follows through ``The 
        term'' and inserting ``(t)''; and
            (2) by striking the close parenthesis that follows a close 
        parenthesis before the period at the end.
    (b) Section 842(d)(7)(B)(i) is amended by striking ``Secretary in'' 
and inserting ``Attorney General in''.
    (c) Section 842(d)(8) is amended by inserting ``or'' after the 
semicolon.
    (d) Section 842(i)(6) is amended by inserting ``or'' after the 
semicolon.
    (e) Section 842(i)(7) is amended by inserting a semicolon after 
``person''.
    (f) Section 843(b)(4)(A) is amended by striking ``Secretary'' both 
places it appears and inserting ``Attorney General''.
    (g) Section 843(d) is amended by striking ``Secretary's'' and 
inserting ``Attorney General's''.
    (h) Section 844(p)(1) is amended by striking ``Secretary'' and 
inserting ``Attorney General''.

SEC. 15. CHAPTER 44.

    (a) Section 921(a)(18) is amended by adding a period at the end.
    (b) Section 921(a)(33)(A) is amended by striking ``Except as 
provided in subparagraph (C), the'' and inserting ``The''.
    (c) Section 921(a)(33)(A)(i) is amended by striking ``Tribal'' and 
inserting ``tribal''.
    (d) Section 922(a)(8)(C) is amended by adding ``and'' after the 
semicolon.
    (e) Section 922(d)(6) is amended by striking ``who''.
    (f) Section 922(q)(1)(C) is amended by inserting ``of'' after 
``Judiciary'' the first place it appears.
    (g) Section 922(s)(3)(A) is amended by striking ``1028(d)(1)'' and 
inserting ``1028(d)''.
    (h) Section 923(e) is amended by striking ``Secretary's'' and 
inserting ``Attorney General's''.
    (i) Section 926(a) is amended by striking ``Secretary's'' and 
inserting ``Attorney General's''.

SEC. 16. CHAPTER 46.

    (a) Section 981(a)(1)(D) is amended by striking ``the the Federal'' 
and inserting ``the Federal''.
    (b) Section 981(a)(1)(G)(i) is amended by striking ``any any 
Federal'' and inserting ``any Federal''.
    (c) Section 981(a)(1)(G)(ii) is amended by striking ``2332b(g)(5)'' 
and inserting ``2332b(g)(5))''.
    (d) Section 981(a)(1)(G)(iv) is amended by striking ``foreign 
Government'' and inserting ``foreign government''.
    (e) Section 981(i)(1)(C) is amended by striking ``481(h)'' and 
inserting ``490(a)(1)''.
    (f) Section 982(a)(3) is amended by striking ``the the Federal'' 
and inserting ``the Federal''.
    (g) Section 984(c)(2) is amended by striking ``(12 U.S.C. 
3101(b)(7))''.

SEC. 17. CHAPTER 47.

    (a) Section 1004 is amended by striking ``25(a)'' and inserting 
``25A''.
    (b) Section 1005 is amended by striking ``25(a)'' and inserting 
``25A''.
    (c) Section 1014 is amended by striking ``Corporation,,'' and 
inserting ``Corporation,''.
    (d) Section 1014 is amended by striking ``25(a)'' and inserting 
``25A''.
    (e) Section 1028(b)(2)(A) is amended by striking ``document,,'' and 
inserting ``document,''.
    (f) Section 1028A(c)(1) is amended by striking ``rewards'' and 
inserting ``records''.
    (g) Section 1030(a)(2)(A) is amended by striking ``1602(n) of title 
15'' and inserting ``103 of the Truth in Lending Act''.
    (h) Section 1030(a)(5)(C) is amended by striking the period and 
inserting a semicolon.
    (i) Section 1030(a)(6)(B) is amended by inserting ``or'' after the 
semicolon.
    (j) Section 1030(c)(3)(B) is amended by striking ``(a)(4),'' and 
inserting ``(a)(4)''.
    (k) Section 1030(e)(4)(I) is amended by striking ``25(a)'' and 
inserting ``25A''.
    (l) Section 1030(g) is amended by striking ``subclauses'' and 
inserting ``subclause''.
    (m) Section 1030(j)(2) is amended by adding a period at the end.

SEC. 18. CHAPTER 59.

    Section 1261 is amended by striking ``(a)'' where it appears before 
``The Attorney General''.

SEC. 19. CHAPTER 61.

    (a) The heading for section 1303 and the item relating to that 
section in the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 61 are 
each amended by striking ``Postmaster or employee'' and inserting 
``Officer or employee of the Postal Service''.
    (b) Section 1306 is amended by striking ``5136A'' and inserting 
``5136B''.

SEC. 20. CHAPTER 63.

    Section 1350(b) is amended by striking ``pf 1934'' and inserting 
``of 1934''.

SEC. 21. CHAPTER 71.

    (a) Section 1462 is amended by striking ``230(e)(2)'' and inserting 
``230(f)(2)''.
    (b) Section 1465 is amended by striking ``230(e)(2)'' and inserting 
``230(f)(2)''.
    (c) Section 1466(b) is amended by striking ``produces sells or 
transfers'' both places it appears and inserting ``produces, sells, or 
transfers''.

SEC. 22. CHAPTER 73.

    (a) Section 1510(e) is amended by inserting ``of 1978'' after 
``Right to Financial Privacy Act''.
    (b) Section 1510(e) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
436(b)(1))''.
    (c) Section 1512 is amended in each of subsections (b)(3) and 
(d)(2) by striking ``probation supervised release,,'' and inserting 
``probation, supervised release,''.
    (d) Section 1514(d)(1)(E) is amended by striking ``give'' and 
inserting ``given''.
    (e) Section 1514A(a) is amended by inserting a close parenthesis 
after ``78c)''.

SEC. 23. CHAPTER 83.

    (a) Section 1716E(b)(3)(B)(ii)(V) is amended by striking ``section 
3(d) of the Prevent All Cigarette Trafficking Act of 2009'' and 
inserting ``section 4(d) of the Act of October 19, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 375 
et seq., commonly referred to as the `Jenkins Act')''.
    (b) Section 1716E(b)(5)(A) is amended by inserting ``a'' before 
``verified''.
    (c) Section 1716E(b)(5)(C)(ii)(I) is amended by striking 
``paragraph,'' and inserting ``paragraph''.

SEC. 24. CHAPTER 93.

    (a) Section 1906 is amended by striking ``25(a)'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``25A''.
    (b) Section 1906 is amended by striking ``),,'' and inserting 
``),''.

SEC. 25. CHAPTER 95.

    (a) Section 1956(c)(7)(B)(iii) is amended by striking ``1978))'' 
and inserting ``1978)''.
    (b) Section 1956(c)(7)(D) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``section'' before ``1006'';
            (2) by inserting ``section'' before ``1007'';
            (3) by inserting ``section'' before ``1014''; and
            (4) by inserting ``section'' before ``1032''.
    (c) Section 1956(c)(7)(D) is amended by adding a semicolon at the 
end.
    (d) Section 1959(a)(6) is amended by striking ``fine of'' and 
inserting ``fine''.

SEC. 26. CHAPTER 96.

    Section 1961(1) is amended by striking the period which precedes a 
comma.

SEC. 27. CHAPTER 97.

    (a) Section 1992(a)(4) is amended by striking ``know,'' both places 
it appears and inserting ``know''.
    (b) Section 1992(d)(7) is amended--
            (1) by inserting a comma after ``bus transportation''; and
            (2) by inserting a comma after ``sightseeing 
        transportation''.

SEC. 28. CHAPTER 102.

    (a) Section 2101(a) is amended by striking ``subparagraph (A), (B), 
(C), or (D) of this paragraph'' and inserting ``paragraph (1), (2), 
(3), or (4)''.
    (b) Section 2101(b) is amended by striking ``subparagraph (A), (B), 
(C), or (D) of paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``paragraph (1), (2), (3), 
or (4)''.

SEC. 29. CHAPTER 103.

    Section 2119 is amended by inserting a comma after ``harm''.

SEC. 30. CHAPTER 109A.

    Section 2245 is amended by striking ``(a) In General.--''.

SEC. 31. CHAPTER 110.

    (a) Section 2252A(a)(7) is amended by striking the period and 
inserting a semicolon.
    (b) Section 2252B(e) is amended by striking ``physcial'' and 
inserting ``physical''.
    (c) Section 2253(a) is amended--
            (1) by inserting a comma after ``2260 of this chapter''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``chapter,,'' and inserting ``chapter,''.
    (d) Section 2253(a)(1) is amended by striking ``or 2252'' and 
inserting ``2252,''.
    (e) Section 2256(2)(B) is amended by striking ``subsection 8(B) of 
this section,'' and inserting ``paragraph (8)(B), the term''.
    (f) Section 2256(8) is amended by striking the period at the end 
and inserting a semicolon.
    (g) Section 2257(h)(2)(A)(iii) is amended by striking ``content,'' 
and inserting ``content''.
    (h) Section 2257A(h)(1)(A)(iii) is amended by striking ``than'' and 
inserting ``that''.
    (i) Each of paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 2257A(i) is amended 
by striking ``and fined'' and inserting ``or fined''.
    (j) Paragraph (3) of section 2257A(i) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``, and fined'' and inserting ``. Such 
        person may also be fined''; and
            (2) by striking ``, or both''.
    (k) Section 2257A is amended by inserting ``(j)'' before ``The 
provisions of this section shall not become effective until 90 days''.
    (l)(1) The heading for section 2258B is amended by striking ``or 
domain name registrar'' and inserting ``and domain name registrars''.
    (2) The item relating to section 2258B in the table of sections at 
the beginning of chapter 110 is amended to read as follows:

``2258B. Limited liability for electronic communication service 
                            providers, remote computing service 
                            providers, and domain name registrars.''.
    (m) Section 2258B(a) is amended by inserting ``a'' before 
``domain'' the first place it appears.
    (n) Section 2258B(b)(2)(C) is amended by inserting ``or'' before 
``sections''.
    (o) Section 2258C is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c), by striking ``subsections'' and 
        inserting ``subsection''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``section (d)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (d)''.

SEC. 32. CHAPTER 111.

    Section 2280(c) is amended by striking ``2(c)'' and inserting 
``13(c)''.

SEC. 33. CHAPTER 111A.

    (a) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 111A is 
amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``2293. Bar to prosecution.''.
    (b) Section 2290(a)(2)(A) is amended by inserting a close 
parenthesis before the semicolon at the end.
    (c) Section 2290(a)(2)(C) is amended by striking ``under section 2 
of the Maritime Drug Law Enforcement Act (46 U.S.C. App. 1903).'' and 
inserting ``in section 70502(b) of title 46).''.
    (d) Section 2291(c) is amended by inserting a close parenthesis 
after ``10101(12))'' and after ``10101(23))''.

SEC. 34. CHAPTER 113.

    (a) The 4th paragraph of section 2315 is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``Whoever receives, possesses, conceals, stores, barters, sells, or 
disposes of any veterans' memorial object which has crossed a State or 
United States boundary after being stolen, unlawfully converted, or 
taken, knowing the same to have been stolen, unlawfully converted, or 
taken--''.
    (b) Section 2319A(e)(2) is amended by striking ``2320(e)'' and 
inserting ``2320(f)''.

SEC. 35. CHAPTER 113B.

    (a) Section 2332b(g)(3) is amended by striking ``1365(g)(3)'' and 
inserting ``1365(h)(3)''.
    (b) Section 2332b(g)(5)(B)(i) is amended by inserting a comma after 
``832 (relating to participation in nuclear and weapons of mass 
destruction threats to the United States)''.
    (c) Section 2332f(e)(1) is amended by striking ``1365(g)(3)'' and 
inserting ``1365(h)(3)''.
    (d) Section 2339C(e)(11) is amended by striking ``1365(g)(3)'' and 
inserting ``1365(h)(3)''.
    (e) Section 2339D(b)(1) is amended by inserting ``section'' after 
``a national of the United States (as defined in''.
    (f) Section 2339D(c)(1) is amended by striking ``2232a(c)(2)'' and 
inserting ``2332a(c)(2)''.

SEC. 36. CHAPTER 114.

    (a) Section 2341(6) is amended by adding ``and'' at the end.
    (b) Section 2341(7)(A) is amended by inserting ``a'' before 
``manufacturer''.
    (c) Section 2341(7)(D) is amended by striking the semicolon at the 
end and inserting a period.

SEC. 37. CHAPTER 115.

    Section 2390 is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2390. Enlistment to serve against United States
    ``Whoever enlists or is engaged within the United States or in any 
place subject to the jurisdiction thereof, with intent to serve in 
armed hostility against the United States, shall be fined under this 
title or imprisoned not more than three years, or both.''.

SEC. 38. CHAPTER 118.

    Section 2442(c)(1) is amended by inserting a close parenthesis 
before the semicolon.

SEC. 39. CHAPTER 119.

    (a) Section 2510(4) is amended by striking the period and inserting 
a semicolon.
    (b) Section 2516(1) is amended by striking ``The Attorney General'' 
and all that follows through ``specially designated'' and inserting 
``The Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General, Associate Attorney 
General, or any Assistant Attorney General, any acting Assistant 
Attorney General, or any Deputy Assistant Attorney General or acting 
Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Criminal Division or National 
Security Division specially designated''.
    (c) Section 2516(1)(p) is amended by striking ``or'' at the end.
    (d) Section 2516(1)(q) is amended by inserting a comma after 
``2332h''.
    (e) Section 2516(2) is amended--
            (1) by inserting a comma after ``kidnapping''; and
            (2) by striking ``production,,'' and inserting 
        ``production,''.
    (f) Section 2517(6) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 401a)''.

SEC. 40. CHAPTER 123.

    Section 2725(3) is amended by striking the period and inserting a 
semicolon.

SEC. 41. CHAPTER 201.

    (a) Section 3006A(d)(1) is amended by striking ``5305'' and 
inserting ``5303''.
    (b) Section 3006A(d)(1) is amended by inserting ``judge'' after 
``magistrate'' the 3rd and 4th places it appears.

SEC. 42. CHAPTER 203.

    (a) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 203 is 
amended--
            (1) in the item relating to section 3046, by striking 
        ``Warrants'' and inserting ``Warrant'';
            (2) in the item relating to section 3051, by adding a 
        period at the end; and
            (3) by striking the items relating to sections 3059, 3059A, 
        and 3059B.
    (b) The heading for section 3051 and the item in the table of 
sections at the beginning of chapter 203 are each amended by striking 
``Special Agents'' and inserting ``special agents''.
    (c) Section 3056(b)(1) is amended by striking ``216,''.
    (d) Section 3061(c)(2)(C) is amended by striking ``Unites'' and 
inserting ``United''.

SEC. 43. CHAPTER 205.

    Section 3103a(b)(1) is amended--
            (1) by inserting a close parenthesis after ``2705''; and
            (2) by striking the close parenthesis after ``delaying a 
        trial''.

SEC. 44. CHAPTER 211.

    Section 3239(2) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 421)''.

SEC. 45. CHAPTER 213.

    (a) Section 3286(b) is amended by striking ``forseeable'' and 
inserting ``foreseeable''.
    (b) Section 3299 is amended by striking ``section 2257'' and 
inserting ``sections 2257''.

SEC. 46. CHAPTER 219.

    The heading for section 3402 and the item in the table of sections 
at the beginning of chapter 219 are each amended by striking ``Rules of 
procedure, practice and appeal'' and inserting ``Appeal''.

SEC. 47. CHAPTER 223.

    Section 3486(a)(1)(A)(iii) is amended by striking ``3056'' and 
inserting ``3056(a)''.

SEC. 48. CHAPTER 224.

    Section 3525(d) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``3579(b)'' and inserting ``3663(b)''; and
            (2) by striking ``the date of the enactment of this 
        chapter'' each place it appears and inserting ``October 12, 
        1984''.

SEC. 49. CHAPTER 227.

    (a) The table of subchapters at the beginning of chapter 227 is 
amended by inserting ``Sec.'' above the item relating to section 3351.
    (b) Each of subchapters A through D of chapter 227 is amended by 
striking the item relating to the subchapter heading in the table of 
sections for that subchapter.
    (c) Section 3553(a)(5)(B) is amended by striking the period and 
inserting a semicolon.
    (d) Section 3553(c) is amended by striking ``Commission,,'' and 
inserting ``Commission,''.
    (e) Section 3559(g)(2)(B) is amended by striking ``given that term 
is'' and inserting ``given that term in''.
    (f) Section 3563(b)(22) is amended by striking ``or;'' and 
inserting ``; or''.
    (g) Section 3565(b)(3) is amended by striking ``3563(a)(4)'' and 
inserting ``3563(a)(5)''.
    (h) Section 3583(d) is amended by striking ``3563(a)(4)'' and 
inserting ``3563(a)(5)''.

SEC. 50. CHAPTER 228.

    (a) Section 3592(c)(1) is amended by striking ``wrecking trains'' 
and inserting ``terrorist attacks and other violence against railroad 
carriers and against mass transportation systems on land, on water, or 
through the air''.
    (b) Section 3599(g)(1) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``subsection'' and inserting ``section'';
            (2) by striking ``the paragraph'' and inserting ``this 
        paragraph''; and
            (3) by striking ``5305'' and inserting ``5303''.
    (c) Section 3599(g)(3) is amended by striking ``paragraph'' and 
inserting ``subsection''.

SEC. 51. CHAPTER 229.

    (a) The table of subchapters at the beginning of chapter 229 is 
amended by inserting ``Sec.'' above the item relating to section 3601.
    (b) Each of subchapters A through C of chapter 229 is amended by 
striking the item relating to the subchapter heading in the table of 
sections for that subchapter.
    (c) Section 3608 is amended by striking ``3563(a)(4)'' and 
inserting ``3563(a)(5)''.
    (d) The item relating to section 3612 in the table of sections at 
the beginning of subchapter B of chapter 229 is amended by striking 
``an''.
    (e) Section 3613(c) is amended by striking ``sections'' and 
inserting ``section''.
    (f) Section 3621(e)(5)(A) is amended by striking 
``pharmocotherapies'' and inserting ``pharmacotherapies''.
    (g) Section 3624(b)(1) is amended by inserting a comma after ``more 
than 1 year''.

SEC. 52. CHAPTER 232.

    Section 3663(c)(1) is amended by striking ``(ii)'' and inserting 
``(ii))''.

SEC. 53. CHAPTER 235.

    Each of subsections (a)(3) and (b)(3) of section 3742 is amended by 
striking ``3563(b)(6) or (b)(11)'' and inserting ``3563(b)(5) or 
(b)(10)''.

SEC. 54. CHAPTER 303.

    Section 4042(a) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(D)'' and inserting ``(6)'';
            (2) by striking ``(E)'' and inserting ``(7)'';
            (3) in paragraph (6) as so redesignated by this section--
                    (A) by striking ``(i)'' and inserting ``(A)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``(ii)'' and inserting ``(B)''; and
            (4) in paragraph (7) as so redesignated by this section--
                    (A) by striking ``(i)'' and inserting ``(A)'';
                    (B) by striking ``(ii)'' and inserting ``(B)'';
                    (C) by striking ``(iii)'' and inserting ``(C)'';
                    (D) by striking ``(iv)'' and inserting ``(D)'';
                    (E) by striking ``(v)'' and inserting ``(E)'';
                    (F) by striking ``(vi)'' and inserting ``(F)''; and
                    (G) by striking ``(vii)'' and inserting ``(G)''.

SEC. 55. CHAPTER 306.

    Section 4109(a)(1) is amended by striking ``the Act'' and inserting 
``section 3006A of this title''.

SEC. 56. CHAPTER 313.

    (a) The heading for section 4241 is amended by inserting ``or'' 
after ``stand trial''.
    (b) Section 4247(a)(6) is amended by inserting ``to'' after ``with 
respect''.

SEC. 57. CHAPTER 319.

    Chapter 319 is amended--
            (1) by striking the chapter heading and inserting the 
        following:

            ``CHAPTER 319--NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CORRECTIONS

``Sec.
``4351. Establishment; Advisory Board; appointment of members; 
                            compensation; officers; committees; 
                            delegation of powers; Director, appointment 
                            and powers.
``4352. Authority of Institute; time; records of recipients; access; 
                            scope of section.'';
            (2) by striking ``Sec. 4351. (a) There'' and inserting the 
        following:
``Sec. 4351. Establishment; Advisory Board; appointment of members; 
              compensation; officers; committees; delegation of powers; 
              Director, appointment and powers
    ``(a) There''; and
            (3) by striking ``Sec. 4352. (a) In'' and inserting the 
        following:
``Sec. 4352. Authority of Institute; time; records of recipients; 
              access; scope of section
    ``(a) In''.

SEC. 58. CHAPTER 403.

    Section 5037(d)(5) is amended by striking ``title 18'' and 
inserting ``title 28''.
                                 <all>
