[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 389 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 389

    Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to lower the 
threshold at which the gross budgetary effect of a piece of legislation 
requires the cost estimates provided for the legislation to incorporate 
macroeconomic variables resulting from the legislation, and to require 
     the cost estimates provided for appropriation bills and joint 
               resolutions to incorporate such variables.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 28, 2015

  Mr. Delaney (for himself, Mr. Peters, and Mr. Hanna) submitted the 
   following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
    Amending the Rules of the House of Representatives to lower the 
threshold at which the gross budgetary effect of a piece of legislation 
requires the cost estimates provided for the legislation to incorporate 
macroeconomic variables resulting from the legislation, and to require 
     the cost estimates provided for appropriation bills and joint 
               resolutions to incorporate such variables.

    Resolved,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This resolution may be cited as the ``Honest Dynamic Scoring 
Resolution''.

SEC. 2. EXPANSION OF TYPES OF LEGISLATION SUBJECT TO DYNAMIC SCORING IN 
              COST ESTIMATES.

    (a) Lowering Threshold of Economic Impact.--Clause 8(d)(1)(A) of 
rule XIII of the Rules of the House of Representatives is amended by 
striking ``0.25 percent of the current projected gross domestic product 
for that fiscal year'' and inserting ``1 percent of the total amount of 
discretionary spending in the most recently ended fiscal year''.
    (b) Applying Requirement to Appropriation Bills and Joint 
Resolutions.--
            (1) In general.--Clause 8 of rule XIII of the Rules of the 
        House of Representatives is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (c) and (d) as 
                paragraphs (d) and (e); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (b) the following 
                new paragraph:
    ``(c)(1) An estimate provided by the Congressional Budget Office 
for the Committee on Appropriations for any appropriation bill or joint 
resolution under section 202(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 
shall, to the extent practicable, incorporate the budgetary effects of 
changes in economic output, employment, capital stock, and other 
macroeconomic variables resulting from such bill or joint resolution. 
The preceding sentence shall only apply to an estimate with respect to 
an appropriation bill or joint resolution, or portion thereof, that 
funds a project, program, or activity authorized by major legislation 
(as described in paragraph (e)).
    ``(2) If the Office provides a range of estimates in addition to a 
central value under paragraph (1) with respect to such a bill or joint 
resolution, the central value within such range shall be used for 
official scoring purposes.
    ``(3) Notwithstanding the requirements of subparagraph (1), the 
Congressional Budget Office may use traditional scoring methods when 
providing such an estimate if the estimate will be the same under such 
method and under the method prescribed by such subparagraph.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Clause 8(d)(1) of such rule, as 
        redesignated by paragraph (1)(A), is amended by striking 
        ``paragraphs (a) and (b)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (a), (b), 
        and (c)''.
            (3) Clerical amendment.--The heading of clause 8 of such 
        rule is amended by striking ``major legislation'' and inserting 
        ``major legislation and appropriation bills and joint 
        resolutions''.
                                 <all>
