[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 339 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                        Calendar No. 11
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 339

To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health 
        Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 entirely.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            February 2, 2015

   Mr. Cruz (for himself, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Vitter, Mr. 
 Toomey, Mr. Paul, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Portman, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Scott, 
 Mr. Hatch, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Perdue, Ms. Ayotte, 
Mr. Rubio, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Moran, Mr. Coats, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Grassley, 
    Mr. Lankford, Mr. Flake, Mrs. Ernst, Mr. Daines, Mr. Thune, Mr. 
 Cochran, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Burr, Mr. Lee, Mr. Gardner, Mr. McCain, Mr. 
Shelby, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Sasse, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Johnson, 
   Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Rounds, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Graham, Mr. 
  Cassidy, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Sessions, and Mr. Risch) introduced the 
             following bill; which was read the first time

                            February 3, 2015

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health 
        Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 entirely.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``ObamaCare Repeal Act''.

SEC. 2. REPEAL OF THE PATIENT PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE CARE ACT AND 
              THE HEALTH CARE AND EDUCATION RECONCILIATION ACT OF 2010.

    (a) Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.--Effective on the 
date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) is 
repealed and the provisions of law amended or repealed by such Act are 
restored or revived as if such Act had not been enacted.
    (b) Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010.--
Effective on the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 
(Public Law 111-152) is repealed and the provisions of law amended or 
repealed by such Act are restored or revived as if such Act had not 
been enacted.

SEC. 3. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
Representatives, as long as such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage of this Act.
                                                        Calendar No. 11

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 339

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health 
        Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 entirely.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            February 3, 2015

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
