[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4473 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4473

   To authorize, direct, expedite, and facilitate a land exchange in 
            Yavapai County, Arizona, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 4, 2016

    Mr. Gosar (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Salmon, Mr. 
Schweikert, Mrs. Kirkpatrick, Mr. Gallego, Ms. Sinema, and Ms. McSally) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To authorize, direct, expedite, and facilitate a land exchange in 
            Yavapai County, Arizona, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cottonwood Land Exchange Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Yavapai County, 
        Arizona.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means all 
        right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
        approximately 80 acres of land within the Coconino National 
        Forest, in Yavapai County, Arizona, generally depicted as 
        ``Coconino National Forest Parcels `Federal Land''' on the map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Cottonwood Land Exchange'', dated December 2015.
            (4) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the approximately 369 acres of land in Yavapai County, Arizona, 
        generally depicted as ``Yavapai County Parcels `Non-Federal 
        Land''' on the map.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture, unless otherwise specified.

SEC. 3. LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) In General.--If the County offers to convey to the Secretary 
all right, title, and interest of the County in and to the non-Federal 
land, the Secretary shall accept the offer and simultaneously convey to 
the County all right, title, and interest of the United States to the 
Federal land.
    (b) Land Title.--Title to the non-Federal land conveyed to the 
Secretary under this Act shall be acceptable to the Secretary and shall 
conform to the title approval standards of the Attorney General of the 
United States applicable to land acquisitions by the Federal 
Government.
    (c) Exchange Costs.--The County shall pay for all land survey, 
appraisal, and other costs to the Secretary as may be necessary to 
process and consummate the exchange under this Act, including 
reimbursement to the Secretary, if the Secretary so requests, for staff 
time spent in such processing and consummation.

SEC. 4. EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE AND APPRAISALS.

    (a) Appraisals.--The values of the lands to be exchanged under this 
Act shall be determined by the Secretary through appraisals performed 
in accordance with--
            (1) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
        Acquisitions;
            (2) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
        Practice;
            (3) appraisal instructions issued by the Secretary; and
            (4) shall be performed by an appraiser mutually agreed to 
        by the Secretary and the County.
    (b) Equal Value Exchange.--The values of the Federal and non-
Federal land parcels exchanged shall be equal, or if they are not 
equal, shall be equalized as follows:
            (1) Surplus of federal land value.--If the final appraised 
        value of the Federal land exceeds the final appraised value of 
        the non-Federal land, the County shall make a cash equalization 
        payment to the United States as necessary to achieve equal 
        value, including, if necessary, an amount in excess of that 
        authorized pursuant to section 206(b) of the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)).
            (2) Use of funds.--Any cash equalization moneys received by 
        the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be--
                    (A) deposited in the fund established under Public 
                Law 90-171 (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act''; 16 
                U.S.C. 484a); and
                    (B) made available to the Secretary for the 
                acquisition of land or interests in land in Region 3 of 
                the Forest Service.
            (3) Surplus of non-federal land value.--If the final 
        appraised value of the non-Federal land exceeds the final 
        appraised value of the Federal land, the United States shall 
        not make a cash equalization payment to the County, and surplus 
        value of the non-Federal land shall be considered a donation by 
        the County to the United States for all purposes of law.

SEC. 5. WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS.

    Lands acquired by the Secretary under this Act shall, without 
further action by the Secretary, be permanently withdrawn from all 
forms of appropriation and disposal under the public land laws 
(including the mining and mineral leasing laws) and the Geothermal 
Steam Act of 1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).

SEC. 6. MANAGEMENT OF LAND.

    Land acquired by the Secretary under this Act shall become part of 
the Coconino National Forest and be managed in accordance with the 
laws, rules, and regulations applicable to the National Forest System.

SEC. 7. MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) Minor Errors.--The Secretary and the County may, by mutual 
agreement--
            (1) make minor boundary adjustments to the Federal and non-
        Federal lands involved in the exchange; and
            (2) correct any minor errors in any map, acreage estimate, 
        or description of any land to be exchanged.
    (b) Conflict.--If there is a conflict between a map, an acreage 
estimate, or a description of land under this Act, the map shall 
control unless the Secretary and the County mutually agree otherwise.
    (c) Availability.--The Secretary shall file and make available for 
public inspection in the headquarters of the Coconino National Forest a 
copy of all maps referred to in this Act.
                                 <all>
