[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4969 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 432
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4969

                          [Report No. 114-558]

   To amend the Public Health Service Act to direct the Centers for 
 Disease Control and Prevention to provide for informational materials 
 to educate and prevent addiction in teenagers and adolescents who are 
  injured playing youth sports and subsequently prescribed an opioid.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 15, 2016

   Mr. Meehan (for himself, Mr. Kind, Mr. Rooney of Florida, and Mr. 
   Veasey) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Energy and Commerce

                              May 10, 2016

 Additional sponsors: Mr. Michael F. Doyle of Pennsylvania, Mr. Joyce, 
Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, 
 Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Mulvaney, Mr. Chabot, Mrs. 
                 Hartzler, Mr. Paulsen, and Ms. McSally

                              May 10, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
 [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on April 
                               15, 2016]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Public Health Service Act to direct the Centers for 
 Disease Control and Prevention to provide for informational materials 
 to educate and prevent addiction in teenagers and adolescents who are 
  injured playing youth sports and subsequently prescribed an opioid.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``John Thomas Decker Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. INFORMATION MATERIALS AND RESOURCES TO PREVENT ADDICTION 
              RELATED TO YOUTH SPORTS INJURIES.

    (a) Technical Clarification.--Effective as if included in the 
enactment of the Children's Health Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-310), 
section 3405(a) of such Act (114 Stat. 1221) is amended by striking 
``Part E of title III'' and inserting ``Part E of title III of the 
Public Health Service Act''.
    (b) Amendment.--Title III of the Public Health Service Act is 
amended by inserting after part D of such title (42 U.S.C. 254b et 
seq.) the following new part E:

                     ``PART E--OPIOID USE DISORDER

``SEC. 341. INFORMATION MATERIALS AND RESOURCES TO PREVENT ADDICTION 
              RELATED TO YOUTH SPORTS INJURIES.

    ``(a) Report.--The Secretary shall--
            ``(1) not later than 24 months after the date of the 
        enactment of this section, make publicly available a report 
        determining the extent to which informational materials and 
        resources described in subsection (b) are available to 
        teenagers and adolescents who play youth sports, families of 
        such teenagers and adolescents, nurses, youth sports groups, 
        and relevant health care provider groups; and
            ``(2) for purposes of educating and preventing addiction in 
        teenagers and adolescents who are injured playing youth sports 
        and are subsequently prescribed an opioid, not later than 12 
        months after such report is made publicly available and taking 
        into consideration the findings of such report, develop and, in 
        coordination with youth sports groups, disseminate 
        informational materials and resources described in subsection 
        (b) for teenagers and adolescents who play youth sports, 
        families of such teenagers and adolescents, nurses, youth 
        sports groups, and relevant health care provider groups.
    ``(b) Materials and Resources Described.--For purposes of this 
section, the informational materials and resources described in this 
subsection are informational materials and resources with respect to 
youth sports injuries for which opioids are potentially prescribed and 
subsequently potentially lead to addiction, including materials and 
resources focused on the dangers of opioid use and misuse, treatment 
options for such injuries that do not involve the use of opioids, and 
how to seek treatment for addiction.
    ``(c) No Additional Funds.--No additional funds are authorized to 
be appropriated for the purpose of carrying out this section. This 
section shall be carried out using amounts otherwise available for such 
purpose.''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 432

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4969

                          [Report No. 114-558]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   To amend the Public Health Service Act to direct the Centers for 
 Disease Control and Prevention to provide for informational materials 
 to educate and prevent addiction in teenagers and adolescents who are 
  injured playing youth sports and subsequently prescribed an opioid.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 10, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
