[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1789 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1789

 To ensure the safety of DOT-111 tank cars by improving standards for 
new tank cars and upgrading existing tank cars, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 14, 2015

    Mr. Payne (for himself, Ms. Norton, Mr. Rush, Mr. Connolly, Ms. 
  Slaughter, and Mrs. Watson Coleman) introduced the following bill; 
       which was referred to the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Homeland Security, 
for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of 
                        the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To ensure the safety of DOT-111 tank cars by improving standards for 
new tank cars and upgrading existing tank cars, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Tank Car Safety and Security Act of 
2015''.

SEC. 2. DOT-111 TANK CAR IMPROVEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall revise regulations 
regarding DOT-111 tank cars to--
            (1) improve the tank car design standards for new cars to 
        include an outer steel jacket around the tank car and thermal 
        protection, full-height head shields and high-flow capacity 
        pressure relief valves; and
            (2) require additional safety upgrades to tank cars built 
        after October 2011 by including installation of high-flow-
        capacity relief valves and design modifications to prevent 
        bottom outlets from opening in the case of an accident.
    (b) Security Enhancements.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security 
Administration shall issue such regulations as are necessary to enhance 
the security of tank cars by requiring that all rail safety 
coordinators ensure that no tank car containing crude oil is left 
unattended during any period of time that such tank car is being 
transferred between railroad carriers or between a railroad carrier and 
a shipper.
    (c) Phase Out Plan.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit a 
plan to the appropriate committees of Congress to phase out, on an 
aggressive basis, older-model DOT-111 tank cars used to move flammable 
liquids that are not retrofitted to meet new Federal requirements 
established under this section.
                                 <all>
