[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2517 Reported in Senate (RS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 551
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2517

                          [Report No. 114-295]

 To require a report on United States strategy to combat terrorist use 
                of social media, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            February 9, 2016

 Mr. Johnson (for himself, Mrs. Ernst, and Mr. Booker) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
               Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

                             July 11, 2016

                Reported by Mr. Johnson, with amendments
  [Omit the part struck through and insert the part printed in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require a report on United States strategy to combat terrorist use 
                of social media, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Combat Terrorist Use of Social Media 
Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (D) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (E) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                of the House of Representatives;
                    (F) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate;
                    (G) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
                    (H) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (I) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; 
                and
                    (J) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
                Senate.
            (2) Domestic terrorism; international terrorism.--The terms 
        ``domestic terrorism'' and ``international terrorism'' have the 
        meaning meanings given such terms in section 2331 of title 18, 
        United States Code.
        <DELETED>    (3) Radicalization.--The term ``radicalization'' 
        means the process by which an individual shifts from a 
        nonviolent belief system to a belief system that includes the 
        willingness to actively advocate, facilitate, or practice 
        ideologically motivated international terrorism or domestic 
        terrorism as a method to effect societal or political 
        change.</DELETED>
            (3) Radicalization.--The term ``radicalization'' means the 
        process by which an individual chooses to facilitate or commit 
        international terrorism or domestic terrorism.
            (4) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means any United States citizen or alien admitted for 
        permanent residence in the United States.

SEC. 3. REPORT ON STRATEGY TO COMBAT REPORTS ON COMBATING TERRORIST USE 
              OF SOCIAL MEDIA.

    (a) In General Overview.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the President shall transmit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report on United States strategy to combat 
terrorists' and terrorist organizations' use of social media and the 
efforts of the United States to combat such use.
    (b) Overview Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An evaluation of the role of social media in 
        radicalization domestically and abroad.
            (2) An analysis of how terrorists and terrorist 
        organizations are using social media, including trends.
            (3) A summary of the Federal Government's efforts to 
        monitor, review, disrupt, and counter the use of social media 
        by terrorists and terrorist organizations., an evaluation of 
        the success of such efforts, and recommendations for 
        improvement.
        <DELETED>    (4) An analysis of how the Federal Government is 
        using social media to counter terrorist propaganda and 
        radicalization domestically and abroad.</DELETED>
            (5)(4) An assessment of the value to law enforcement 
        officials and the intelligence community of reviewing and 
        analyzing social media posts by terrorists and terrorist 
        organizations.
            (6)(5) An overview of available local, State, and Federal 
        social media training programs to understand and combat the use 
        of social media by terrorists and terrorist organizations, the 
        required qualifications for trainers in each program, the 
        intended students participants of each program, as well as 
        recommendations for improving or expanding existing training 
        opportunities and training participation. for the following:
                            (i) Improving or expanding existing 
                        training opportunities and training 
                        participation.
                            (ii) Incorporating training on the civil 
                        rights and civil liberties of United States 
                        persons who are not engaged in terrorist 
                        activities.
            (6) An assessment of the value to the Federal Government of 
        collaborating with civil society to counter terrorist 
        propaganda and radicalization domestically and abroad, as well 
        as an overview of any legal issues that such collaboration may 
        present.
            (7) An assessment of any impact of the efforts of the 
        Federal Government to combat terrorists' and terrorist 
        organizations' use of social media may have upon the civil 
        rights and civil liberties of United States persons who are not 
        engaged in terrorist activities.
    (c) Evaluation.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees an evaluation of the efforts of the United 
States to combat the use of social media by terrorists and terrorist 
organizations.
    (d) Evaluation Elements.--The report required under subsection (c) 
shall include--
            (1) an evaluation of the efforts of the Federal Government 
        to monitor, review, disrupt, and counter the use of social 
        media by terrorists and terrorist organizations, and 
        recommendations for improvements of such efforts;
            (2) an analysis of how the Federal Government is using 
        social media to counter terrorist propaganda and radicalization 
        domestically and abroad, and how such tactics fit within the 
        broader efforts of the Federal Government to combat domestic 
        terrorism and international terrorism; and
            (3) an assessment of any impact the efforts of the Federal 
        Government to combat terrorists' and terrorist organizations' 
        use of social media may have upon the civil rights and civil 
        liberties of United States persons who are not engaged in 
        terrorist activities.
    (c)(e) Form.--The report required by subsection (a)  should reports 
required under subsections (a) and (c) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, and may include a classified annex in accordance 
with the protection of intelligence sources and methods.

SEC. 4. POLICY AND COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY TO COUNTER TERRORISTS' AND 
              TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS' USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the President shall transmit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report that contains a comprehensive 
strategy to counter terrorists' and terrorist organizations' use of 
social media, as committed to in the President's 2011 ``Strategic 
Implementation Plan for Empowering Local Partners to Prevent Violent 
Extremism in the United States''.
    (b) Form.--The report strategy required by subsection (a) should 
shall be submitted in unclassified form, and may include a classified 
annex in accordance with the protection of intelligence sources and 
methods.

SEC. 5. PROHIBITION ON NEW REGULATORY AUTHORITY.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed as granting the President or 
any department or agency of the Federal Government authority to 
promulgate regulations or set standards relating to non-Federal 
entities.
                                                       Calendar No. 551

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2517

                          [Report No. 114-295]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To require a report on United States strategy to combat terrorist use 
                of social media, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 11, 2016

                        Reported with amendments
