[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2446 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2446

  To amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to require the use of 
  electronic visit verification for personal care services furnished 
          under the Medicaid program, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 19, 2015

 Mr. Guthrie introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title XIX of the Social Security Act to require the use of 
  electronic visit verification for personal care services furnished 
          under the Medicaid program, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ELECTRONIC VISIT VERIFICATION SYSTEM REQUIRED FOR PERSONAL 
              CARE SERVICES UNDER MEDICAID.

    (a) In General.--Section 1903 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1396b) is amended by inserting after subsection (k) the following new 
subsection:
    ``(l)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), with respect to any amount 
expended for medical assistance for services described in section 
1915(d)(5)(C)(i) or such similar services as the Secretary may specify 
furnished in a calendar quarter beginning on or after January 1, 2018, 
unless a State has in place an electronic visit verification system for 
personal care services specified under regulations under section 
1905(a)(24) furnished in such quarter, the Federal medical assistance 
percentage shall be reduced--
            ``(A) for calendar quarters in 2018 and 2019, by .25 
        percentage points;
            ``(B) for calendar quarters in 2020, by .5 percent 
        percentage points;
            ``(C) for calendar quarters in 2021, by .75 percentage 
        points; and
            ``(D) for calendar quarters in 2022 and each year 
        thereafter, by 1 percentage point.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply in the case of a State that, as 
of the date of the enactment of this subsection, has in place any 
system for the electronic verification of visits conducted as part of 
personal care services specified under regulations under section 
1905(a)(24) furnished under the State plan.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `electronic visit verification 
system' means a system under which visits conducted as part of personal 
care services specified under regulations under section 1905(a)(24) 
furnished under the State plan are electronically verified with respect 
to--
            ``(A) the date of the service;
            ``(B) the site of the service;
            ``(C) the provider of the service; and
            ``(D) the duration of the service.''.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in the amendment made by this 
section may be construed as establishing an employer-employee 
relationship between the agency or entity that provides for personal 
care services specified under regulations under section 1905(a)(24) of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)(24)) under a State plan 
under title XIX of the Social Security Act and the individuals who, 
under a contract with such an agency or entity, furnish such services 
for purposes of part 552 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
any successor regulations). 
                                 <all>
