[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6216 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6216

     To require State and local law enforcement agencies to submit 
   information about law enforcement investigations to the Attorney 
                    General, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 28, 2016

  Mr. Veasey introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To require State and local law enforcement agencies to submit 
   information about law enforcement investigations to the Attorney 
                    General, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Preservation of Public Evidence Act 
of 2016''.

SEC. 2. REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT INFORMATION ABOUT INVESTIGATIONS TO THE 
              ATTORNEY GENERAL.

    (a) Requirement.--A State receiving any amount under a grant 
program covered by section 3(a) shall require each law enforcement 
agency of that State, and of each unit of local government of that 
State, to submit to the Attorney General, for any incident being 
investigated by such law enforcement agency wherein a person was 
injured or killed by a law enforcement officer or while in the custody 
of a law enforcement agency, copies or records of any the following 
that pertain to the incident:
            (1) Any record or information.
            (2) Any item of evidence.
            (3) Any photographs.
            (4) Any videos, including footage from dashboard cameras 
        and body-worn cameras.
            (5) Any witness statements.
            (6) Any other tangible documents.
    (b) Publication.--The Attorney General shall preserve materials 
submitted under subsection (a) and may publish them or descriptions 
thereof, subject to any applicable limitation under law, upon request 
of any person, as the Attorney General determines appropriate.

SEC. 3. ELIGIBILITY FOR FEDERAL FUNDS.

    (a) Covered Programs.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of this Act, a grant program 
        is covered by this section if--
                    (A) the program is carried out by or under the 
                authority of the Attorney General; and
                    (B) the program may provide amounts to States for 
                law enforcement purposes.
            (2) List.--For each fiscal year, the Attorney General shall 
        prepare a list identifying each program that meets the criteria 
        of paragraph (1) and provide that list to each State.
    (b) Compliance.--For each fiscal year, any amount that a State 
would otherwise receive for that fiscal year under a grant program 
covered by this section shall be reduced by 10 percent, unless the 
chief executive of the State submits to the Attorney General--
            (1) a certification that each law enforcement agency of the 
        State, and of each unit of local government of the State, is in 
        full compliance with the requirements of section 2; or
            (2) an assurance that not less than 5 percent of such 
        amount shall be used only for the purpose of enabling law 
        enforcement agency of the State, and of each unit of local 
        government of the State to comply with the requirements of 
        section 2, so as to ensure that a certification under paragraph 
        (1) may be submitted thereafter.
    (c) Report on Noncompliance.--Not later than the last day of each 
fiscal year, the Attorney General shall publish a report listing each 
State wherein a law enforcement agency of the State, or of a unit of 
local government of the State, has not complied with the requirements 
of section 2 for that fiscal year.
    (d) Redistribution of Amounts.--Amounts under a grant program not 
granted by reason of a reduction under subsection (b), shall be granted 
to one or more entities not subject to such reduction or such 
prohibition, subject to the other laws governing that program.
    (e) Effective Date.--The first grants to which subsection (b) 
applies are grants for the fiscal year beginning October 1, 2017.

SEC. 4. ENHANCED FUNDING FOR BODY CAMERA GRANTS.

    For fiscal year 2017, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, there is appropriated an additional amount for 
State and Local Law Enforcement Activities--Community Oriented Policing 
Services--Community Oriented Policing Services Programs of $10,000,000, 
to be used for grants under part Q of the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968, which shall be used for the acquisition and 
use of body-worn cameras by law enforcement officers.
                                 <all>
