[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5435 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5435

 To prohibit the payment of bonuses to certain Department of Veterans 
  Affairs employees pending filling of Department of Veterans Affairs 
       medical center director positions, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 9, 2016

 Mr. Luetkemeyer introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                   the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To prohibit the payment of bonuses to certain Department of Veterans 
  Affairs employees pending filling of Department of Veterans Affairs 
       medical center director positions, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Providing Leadership and Improving 
Veterans Care Act''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON PAYMENT OF BONUSES TO COVERED EMPLOYEES PENDING 
              FILLING OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL CENTER 
              DIRECTOR POSITIONS.

    (a) Prohibition.--No covered employee may be paid a bonus unless 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines that no permanent position 
of Department of Veterans Affairs medical center director has been 
vacant for 18 consecutive months.
    (b) Covered Employees.--In this section, the term ``covered 
employee'' means any employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
whose responsibilities include participation in the rating, ranking, or 
selection process for individuals to fill positions of Department 
medical center directors and who occupies a senior executive position 
(as such term is defined in section 713(g)(3) of title 38, United 
States Code).
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress a report outlining all 
vacancies in Department of Veterans Affairs medical center director 
positions and the duration for which each such position has been 
vacant.
    (d) Applicability.--The prohibition under subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to an 18-month period that begins on or after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
