[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2412 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2412

   To establish the Tule Lake National Historic Site in the State of 
                  California, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 17, 2015

 Mrs. Boxer (for herself and Mrs. Feinstein) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To establish the Tule Lake National Historic Site in the State of 
                  California, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Tule Lake National Historic Site 
Establishment Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Historic site.--The term ``Historic Site'' means the 
        Tule Lake National Historic Site established by section 3(a).
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Tule 
        Lake National Historic Site Proposed Boundary'', numbered 501/
        128,313, and dated March 2015.
            (3) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the World War II 
        Valor in the Pacific National Monument.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.

SEC. 3. TULE LAKE NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Establishment.--To preserve, protect, and interpret for the 
benefit of present and future generations the historic site of 
incarceration and segregation of United States citizens of Japanese 
descent and resident immigrants of Japanese citizenry at Tule Lake 
during World War II, there is established the Tule Lake National 
Historic Site in the State as a unit of the National Park System.
    (b) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the Historic Site shall be the 
boundaries generally depicted on the Map.
    (c) Availability of Map.--The Map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (d) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        Historic Site in accordance with--
                    (A) this Act; and
                    (B) the laws generally applicable to units of the 
                National Park System, including--
                            (i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and 
                        sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 
                        of title 54, United States Code; and
                            (ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United 
                        States Code.
            (2) Interagency agreement.--The Director of the National 
        Park Service and the Director of the United States Fish and 
        Wildlife Service shall enter into an agreement to allow the 
        Director of the National Park Service to manage and interpret 
        the resources of the portions of the Historic Site, as depicted 
        on the Map, that are located within the boundary of the Tule 
        Lake National Wildlife Refuge, consistent with the management 
        requirements of the Refuge.
            (3) Shared resources.--To the maximum extent practicable, 
        the Secretary may use the resources of the Lava Beds National 
        Monument to administer the Historic Site.
            (4) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date on which funds are made available to prepare a 
                general management plan for the Historic Site, the 
                Secretary shall prepare the general management plan in 
                accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United 
                States Code.
                    (B) Coordination.--The Secretary shall coordinate 
                the preparation and implementation of the general 
                management plan under subparagraph (A) with the Tule 
                Lake National Wildlife Refuge.

SEC. 4. REMOVAL OF TULE LAKE UNIT FROM THE WORLD WAR II VALOR IN THE 
              PACIFIC NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the Monument are revised to 
exclude from the Monument the land and interests in land known as the 
``Tule Lake Unit'', consisting of portions of the Tule Lake Segregation 
Center National Historic Landmark and Camp Tule Lake, as depicted on 
the Map.
    (b) Incorporation Into Historic Site.--
            (1) In general.--The land and interests in land excluded 
        from the Monument under subsection (a) are incorporated in and 
        made part of the Historic Site in accordance with section 3.
            (2) Use of funds.--Any funds for the purposes of the land 
        and interests in land excluded from the Monument under 
        subsection (a) shall be made available for the purposes of the 
        Historic Site.
    (c) References.--Any reference in a law, regulation, document, 
record, map, or other paper of the United States to the Tule Lake Unit 
of World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument shall be 
considered to be a reference to the Tule Lake National Historic Site.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.
                                 <all>
