[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5236 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5236

   To direct the Federal Communications Commission to adopt rules to 
 ensure the accuracy of call location information for 9-1-1 calls, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 13, 2016

  Ms. Eshoo introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To direct the Federal Communications Commission to adopt rules to 
 ensure the accuracy of call location information for 9-1-1 calls, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Requesting Emergency Services and 
Providing Origination Notification Systems Everywhere Act of 2016'' or 
the ``RESPONSE Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. ACCURACY OF 9-1-1 CALL LOCATION INFORMATION.

    (a) Adoption of Rules.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall adopt rules to ensure 
that call location information is conveyed with a 9-1-1 call, 
regardless of the technological platform used and including with calls 
from multi-line telephone systems (as defined in section 6502 of the 
Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1471)).
    (b) Relationship to Other Proceedings.--In adopting the rules 
required by subsection (a), the Commission may consider information and 
conclusions from other Commission proceedings regarding the accuracy of 
call location information, but nothing in this section shall be 
construed to require the Commission to reconsider any information or 
conclusion from a proceeding regarding the accuracy of call location 
information in which the Commission has adopted rules or issued an 
order before the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Other Authority.--In addition to the authority to adopt the 
rules required by subsection (a), the Commission shall have the 
authority to adopt any other rules, technical standards, protocols, and 
procedures as are necessary to ensure that call location information is 
conveyed as described in such subsection.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) 9-1-1 call.--The term ``9-1-1 call'' means a voice call 
        that is placed, or a message that is sent by other means of 
        communication, to a public safety answering point (as defined 
        in section 222 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
        222)) for the purpose of requesting emergency services.
            (2) Call location information.--The term ``call location 
        information'' means accurate and timely information regarding 
        the location of the caller, as determined to be technically 
        feasible and achievable by the Commission.
            (3) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Communications Commission.
                                 <all>
