[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2632 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2632

 To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize and update the 
 National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative for grants to address the 
  problems of individuals who experience trauma and violence related 
                                stress.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 3, 2015

Ms. DeLauro (for herself, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, and Ms. Clark of 
Massachusetts) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize and update the 
 National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative for grants to address the 
  problems of individuals who experience trauma and violence related 
                                stress.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Children's Recovery from Trauma 
Act''.

SEC. 2. GRANTS TO ADDRESS THE PROBLEMS OF INDIVIDUALS WHO EXPERIENCE 
              TRAUMA AND VIOLENCE RELATED STRESS.

    Section 582 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290hh-1) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 582. GRANTS TO ADDRESS THE PROBLEMS OF INDIVIDUALS WHO 
              EXPERIENCE TRAUMA AND VIOLENCE RELATED STRESS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall award grants, contracts or 
cooperative agreements to public and nonprofit private entities, as 
well as to Indian tribes and tribal organizations, for the purpose of 
developing and maintaining programs that--
            ``(1) provide for the continued operation of the National 
        Child Traumatic Stress Initiative (referred to in this section 
        as the `NCTSI') and focus on the mental, behavioral, and 
        biological aspects of psychological trauma response; and
            ``(2) provide for the development of knowledge with regard 
        to evidence-based practices for identifying and treating 
        mental, behavioral, and biological disorders of children and 
        youth resulting from witnessing or experiencing a traumatic 
        event.
    ``(b) Priorities.--In awarding grants, contracts or cooperative 
agreements under subsection (a)(2) (related to the development of 
knowledge on evidence-based practices for treating mental, behavioral, 
and biological disorders associated with psychological trauma), the 
Secretary shall give priority to universities, hospitals, mental health 
agencies, and other community-based child-serving programs that have 
established clinical and research experience in the field of trauma-
related mental disorders.
    ``(c) Coordinating Center.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall award one cooperative agreement to a comprehensive 
national coordinating center to oversee NCTSI activities (in this 
section referred to as the `NCTSI coordinating center').
    ``(d) Child Outcome Data.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall 
collect, analyze, and report NCTSI-wide child outcome and process data 
for the purpose of establishing the effectiveness, implementation, and 
clinical utility of early identification and delivery of evidence-based 
treatment and services delivered to children and families served by the 
NCTSI grantees.
    ``(e) Training.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall oversee the 
continuum of interprofessional training initiatives in evidence-based 
and trauma-informed treatments, interventions, and practices offered to 
NCTSI grantees and providers in all child-serving systems.
    ``(f) Prevention.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall include a 
focus on the development of prevention services and resources as they 
relate to the prevention of exposure to traumatic events and to early 
intervention programs focused on the prevention of the long-term 
consequences of child trauma.
    ``(g) Research.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall establish an 
ongoing collaboration with Federal research institutions, including at 
the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention, for the purpose of sharing NCTSI expertise and 
evaluation data, conducting joint evaluation projects, and informing 
national research priorities related to child trauma.
    ``(h) Dissemination.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall 
collaborate with the Secretary in the dissemination of evidence-based 
and trauma-informed interventions, treatments, products, and other 
resources to all child-serving systems, collaborating Federal agencies, 
and policymakers.
    ``(i) Review.--The Secretary shall establish consensus-driven, in-
person or teleconference review of NCTSI applications by child trauma 
experts and review criteria related to expertise and experience related 
to child trauma and evidence-based practices.
    ``(j) Geographical Distribution.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
grants, contracts or cooperative agreements under subsection (a) are 
distributed equitably among the regions of the United States and among 
urban and rural areas. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, expertise 
and experience in the field of trauma-related disorders shall be 
prioritized in the awarding of such grants as required under subsection 
(b).
    ``(k) Evaluation.--The Secretary, as part of the application 
process, shall require that each applicant for a grant, contract or 
cooperative agreement under subsection (a) submit a plan for the 
rigorous evaluation of the activities funded under the grant, contract 
or agreement, including both process and outcome evaluation, and the 
submission of an evaluation at the end of the project period.
    ``(l) Duration of Awards.--With respect to a grant, contract or 
cooperative agreement under subsection (a), the period during which 
payments under such an award will be made to the recipient shall be 6 
years. Such grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements may be 
renewed. Expertise and experience in the field of trauma-related 
disorders shall be a priority for new and continuing awards.
    ``(m) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, $50,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2016 through 2020.''.
                                 <all>
