[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4843 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4843

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To amend the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to require 
       certain monitoring and oversight, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Infant Plan of Safe Care Improvement 
Act''.

SEC. 2. BEST PRACTICES FOR DEVELOPMENT OF PLANS OF SAFE CARE.

    Section 103(b) of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 
U.S.C. 5104(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (8) as 
        paragraphs (6) through (9), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4), the following:
            ``(5) maintain and disseminate information about the 
        requirements of section 106(b)(2)(B)(iii) and best practices 
        relating to the development of plans of safe care as described 
        in such section for infants born and identified as being 
        affected by illegal substance abuse or withdrawal symptoms, or 
        a Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder;''.

SEC. 3. STATE PLANS.

    Section 106(b)(2)(B)(iii) of the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)(2)(B)(iii)) is amended by inserting 
before the semicolon at the end the following: ``to ensure the safety 
and well-being of such infant following release from the care of 
healthcare providers, including through--''
                                    ``(I) addressing the health and 
                                substance use disorder treatment needs 
                                of the infant and affected family or 
                                caregiver; and
                                    ``(II) the development and 
                                implementation by the State of 
                                monitoring systems regarding the 
                                implementation of such plans to 
                                determine whether and in what manner 
                                local entities are providing, in 
                                accordance with State requirements, 
                                referrals to and delivery of 
                                appropriate services for the infant and 
                                affected family or caregiver''.

SEC. 4. DATA REPORTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 106(d) of the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(d)) is amended by adding at the end of 
the following:
            ``(17)(A) The number of infants identified under subsection 
        (b)(2)(B)(ii).
            ``(B) The number of infants for whom a plan of safe care 
        was developed under subsection (b)(2)(B)(iii).
            ``(C) The number of infants for whom a referral was made 
        for appropriate services, including services for the affected 
        family or caregiver, under subsection (b)(2)(B)(iii).''.
    (b) Redesignation.--Effective on May 29, 2017, section 106(d) of 
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(d)) is 
amended by redesignating paragraph (17) (as added by subsection (a)) as 
paragraph (18).

SEC. 5. MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT.

    (a) Amendment.--Title I of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) is further amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 114. MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT.

    ``The Secretary shall conduct monitoring to ensure that each State 
that receives a grant under section 106 is in compliance with the 
requirements of section 106(b), which--
            ``(1) shall--
                    ``(A) be in addition to the review of the State 
                plan upon its submission under section 106(b)(1)(A); 
                and
                    ``(B) include monitoring of State policies and 
                procedures required under clauses (ii) and (iii) of 
                section 106(b)(2)(B); and
            ``(2) may include--
                    ``(A) a comparison of activities carried out by the 
                State to comply with the requirements of section 106(b) 
                with the State plan most recently approved under 
                section 432 of the Social Security Act;
                    ``(B) a review of information available on the 
                Website of the State relating to its compliance with 
                the requirements of section 106(b);
                    ``(C) site visits, as may be necessary to carry out 
                such monitoring; and
                    ``(D) a review of information available in the 
                State's Annual Progress and Services Report most 
                recently submitted under section 1357.16 of title 45, 
                Code of Federal Regulations (or successor 
                regulations).''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5101 note) is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 113, the 
following:

``Sec. 114. Monitoring and oversight.''.

SEC. 6. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this Act, or the amendments made by this Act, shall be 
construed to authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services or 
any other officer of the Federal Government to add new requirements to 
section 106(b) of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 
U.S.C. 5106a(b)), as amended by this Act.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 11, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4843

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

   To amend the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to require 
       certain monitoring and oversight, and for other purposes.
