[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 844 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 140
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 844

                          [Report No. 114-725]

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2357) to direct the 
  Securities and Exchange Commission to revise Form S-3 so as to add 
 listing and registration of a class of common equity securities on a 
national securities exchange as an additional basis for satisfying the 
 requirements of General Instruction I.B.1. of such form and to remove 
 such listing and registration as a requirement of General Instruction 
I.B.6. of such form, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
 5424) to amend the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and to direct the 
  Securities and Exchange Commission to amend its rules to modernize 
  certain requirements relating to investment advisers, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 6, 2016

   Mr. Sessions, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2357) to direct the 
  Securities and Exchange Commission to revise Form S-3 so as to add 
 listing and registration of a class of common equity securities on a 
national securities exchange as an additional basis for satisfying the 
 requirements of General Instruction I.B.1. of such form and to remove 
 such listing and registration as a requirement of General Instruction 
I.B.6. of such form, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
 5424) to amend the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and to direct the 
  Securities and Exchange Commission to amend its rules to modernize 
  certain requirements relating to investment advisers, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2357) to direct the 
Securities and Exchange Commission to revise Form S-3 so as to add 
listing and registration of a class of common equity securities on a 
national securities exchange as an additional basis for satisfying the 
requirements of General Instruction I.B.1. of such form and to remove 
such listing and registration as a requirement of General Instruction 
I.B.6. of such form. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed 
with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. 
General debate shall be confined to the bill and amendments specified 
in this section and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Financial Services. After general debate the bill shall be considered 
for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting 
of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-62. That amendment in the 
nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in 
order except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee on 
Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered 
only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5424) to amend the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940 and to direct the Securities and Exchange 
Commission to amend its rules to modernize certain requirements 
relating to investment advisers, and for other purposes. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in 
the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Financial 
Services now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The 
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial 
Services; (2) the further amendment printed in part B of the report of 
the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by the 
Member designated in the report, which shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, shall 
be separately debatable for the time specified in the report equally 
divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for a division of the question; and (3) one 
motion to recommit with or without instructions.
                                                 House Calendar No. 140

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 844

                          [Report No. 114-725]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2357) to direct the 
  Securities and Exchange Commission to revise Form S-3 so as to add 
 listing and registration of a class of common equity securities on a 
national securities exchange as an additional basis for satisfying the 
 requirements of General Instruction I.B.1. of such form and to remove 
 such listing and registration as a requirement of General Instruction 
I.B.6. of such form, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
 5424) to amend the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and to direct the 
  Securities and Exchange Commission to amend its rules to modernize 
  certain requirements relating to investment advisers, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 6, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
