[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. Res. 28 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 28

  Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                            Transportation.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            January 20, 2015

Mr. Thune, from the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, 
 reported the following original resolution; which was referred to the 
                 Committee on Rules and Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                            Transportation.

    Resolved, That, in carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under Rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of Rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
from March 1, 2015, through September 30, 2015, October 1, 2015, 
through September 30, 2016, and October 1, 2016, through February 28, 
2017, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis the services 
        of personnel of any such department or agency.
    Sec. 2. (a) The expenses of the committee for the period from March 
1, 2015, through September 30, 2015, under this resolution shall not 
exceed $3,879,581, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of the Legislative Reorganization 
        Act of 1946).
    (b) For the period October 1, 2015, through September 30, 2016, 
expenses of the committee under this resolution shall not exceed 
$6,650,710, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultations, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of the Legislative Reorganization 
        Act of 1946).
    (c) For the period October 1, 2016, through February 28, 2017, 
expenses of the committee under this resolution shall not exceed 
$2,771,129, of which amount--
            (1) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended for the 
        procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
        organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
        Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended); and
            (2) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended for the training 
        of the professional staff of such committee (under procedures 
        specified by section 202(j) of the Legislative Reorganization 
        Act of 1946).
    Sec. 3.  The committee shall report its findings, together with 
such recommendations for legislation as it deems advisable, to the 
Senate at the earliest practicable date, but not later than February 
28, 2017.
    Sec. 4.  Expenses of the committee under this resolution shall be 
paid from the contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers approved by 
the chairman of the committee, except that vouchers shall not be 
required--
            (1) for the disbursement of salaries of employees paid at 
        an annual rate;
            (2) for the payment of telecommunications provided by the 
        Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States 
        Senate;
            (3) for the payment of stationary supplies purchased 
        through the Keeper of the Stationary, United States Senate;
            (4) for payments to the Postmaster, United States Senate;
            (5) for the payment of metered charges on copying equipment 
        provided by the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, 
        United States Senate;
            (6) for the payment of Senate Recording and Photographic 
        Services; or
            (7) for the payment of franked and mass mail costs by the 
        Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States 
        Senate.
    Sec. 5.  There are authorized such sums as may be necessary for 
agency contributions related to the compensation of employees of the 
committee from March 1, 2015, through September 30, 2015, October 1, 
2015, through September 30, 2016, and October 1, 2016, through February 
28, 2017.
                                 <all>
