[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5202 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5202

To require the Department of Housing and Urban Development to fill all 
asset management positions located at non-core office locations of the 
         Office of Multifamily Housing, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 11, 2016

 Ms. Maxine Waters of California (for herself, Ms. Bass, Mr. Becerra, 
 Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Cardenas, Ms. Judy Chu of California, 
 Ms. Hahn, Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Mr. Lowenthal, Mrs. Napolitano, 
Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Linda T. Sanchez of California, Mr. Schiff, Mr. 
  Sherman, and Mrs. Torres) introduced the following bill; which was 
            referred to the Committee on Financial Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require the Department of Housing and Urban Development to fill all 
asset management positions located at non-core office locations of the 
         Office of Multifamily Housing, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Preserving HUD's Multifamily Field 
Offices Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. PRESERVING ASSET MANAGEMENT POSITIONS IN NON-CORE OFFICES.

    (a) Prohibition on Relocation of Positions.--The Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development may not relocate to any core office of 
the Office of Multifamily Housing of the Department, any asset 
management position (including any account executive, senior account 
executive, and troubled asset specialist position) that, as of the date 
of the enactment of this Act, is located at a non-core office of such 
Office.
    (b) Back-Filling of Positions.--Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in 
any asset management position at any non-core office (including any 
vacancy in existence as of the date of the enactment of this Act), the 
Secretary may newly hire an employee to fill such position only at the 
same non-core office.
    (c) Definition of Core Office.--For purposes of this section, the 
term ``core office'' means, with respect to the Office of Multifamily 
Housing of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, a regional 
hub office that is located in Atlanta, Chicago, Fort Worth, New York 
City, or San Francisco.

SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums 
as may be necessary to cover costs of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development of complying with section 2.
                                 <all>
