[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4796 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4796

 To amend title 10, United States Code, to specify a minimum number of 
 days of parental leave available for a member of the Armed Forces in 
  connection with the birth of a child of the member or in connection 
       with the adoption or foster care of a child by the member.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 17, 2016

Ms. Duckworth introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 10, United States Code, to specify a minimum number of 
 days of parental leave available for a member of the Armed Forces in 
  connection with the birth of a child of the member or in connection 
       with the adoption or foster care of a child by the member.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Military Parental Leave 
Modernization Act''.

SEC. 2. PARENTAL LEAVE FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    Section 701 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (i) and (j);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (k) as subsection (j); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new 
        subsection (i):
    ``(i) Parental Leave.--(1) A member of the armed forces, regardless 
of gender or marital status, shall be authorized to take at least 84 
days of parental leave to be used in connection with--
            ``(A) the birth of a child of the member;
            ``(B) a qualifying adoption of a child by the member; or
            ``(C) the placement of a child in foster care with the 
        member.
    ``(2) In the case of a dual military family, both members of the 
armed forces shall be authorized to take parental leave under this 
subsection. The Secretary concerned shall permit the transfer of such 
leave between the two members to accommodate individual family 
circumstances.
    ``(3) For the purpose of parental leave under this subsection, an 
adoption of a child by a member of the armed forces is a qualifying 
child adoption if the member is eligible for reimbursement of qualified 
adoption expenses for such adoption under section 1052 of this title.
    ``(4) Parental leave under paragraph (1) is in addition to other 
leave provided under other provisions of this section or under other 
legal authority. Nothing in this subsection prevents the Secretary 
concerned from authorizing convalescent leave for a female member of 
the armed forces as necessary prior or subsequent to the delivery of 
her child. Convalescent or other leave taken before childbirth by a 
pregnant member shall not reduce the number of days of parental leave 
available to the member under this subsection.
    ``(5) The Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security in the case of the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a 
service in the Navy, shall prescribe regulations to implement this 
subsection, which shall be uniform for the armed forces.''.
                                 <all>
