[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3018 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3018

 To provide for a safe harbor period for the transition from the ICD-9 
             to the ICD-10 standard for health care claims.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 10, 2015

 Mrs. Blackburn (for herself and Mr. Price of Georgia) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and 
  Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on Ways and Means, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for a safe harbor period for the transition from the ICD-9 
             to the ICD-10 standard for health care claims.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Coding Flexibility in Healthcare Act 
of 2015'' or the ``Code-FLEX Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. CONTINUING USE OF ICD-9-CM CODES DURING A TRANSITION PERIOD.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services, in 
implementing the transition to ICD-10 code sets pursuant to section 
1173(c) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2(c)) and 
consistent with section 212 of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 
2014, shall provide for a transition period, in accordance with 
subsection (b), during which health care claims (and related standard 
transactions) otherwise payable (or processed) by public and private 
payors shall continue to be processed and paid, as applicable, if 
submitted with ICD-9 codes.
    (b) Duration of Transition Period.--The transition period under 
subsection (a) shall begin on the first day in which the Secretary 
adopts such ICD-10 code sets as the standard for codes sets under 
section 1173(c) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2(c)) and 
end 180 days after such date.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report assessing 
the impact of such ICD-10 code sets on health care providers 
participating under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act, individuals entitled to benefits under part A of 
such title or enrolled under part B of such title, and other impacted 
stakeholders.
                                 <all>
