[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6133 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6133

  To reauthorize certain programs established by the Adam Walsh Child 
       Protection and Safety Act of 2006, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 22, 2016

  Mr. Sensenbrenner (for himself, Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Mr. Poe of 
Texas, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. Grayson, Mr. Bost, and 
Mr. Goodlatte) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To reauthorize certain programs established by the Adam Walsh Child 
       Protection and Safety Act of 2006, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. SEX OFFENDER MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE (SOMA) PROGRAM 
              REAUTHORIZATION.

    Section 126(d) of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 
2006 (42 U.S.C. 16926(d)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Attorney General $20,000,000 for each of the fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021, to be available only for the SOMA program.''.

SEC. 3. REAUTHORIZATION OF FEDERAL ASSISTANCE WITH RESPECT TO 
              VIOLATIONS OF REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 142(b) of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 
2006 (42 U.S.C. 16941(b)) is amended by striking ``such sums as may be 
necessary for fiscal years 2007 through 2009'' and inserting ``to the 
United States Marshals Service not less than $66,300,000 for each of 
the fiscal years 2017 through 2021''.

SEC. 4. DURATION OF SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN 
              JUVENILES.

    Subparagraph (B) of section 115(b)(2) of the Adam Walsh Child 
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16915(b)(2)) is amended by 
striking ``25 years'' and inserting ``15 years''.

SEC. 5. PUBLIC ACCESS TO JUVENILE SEX OFFENDER INFORMATION.

    Section 118(c) of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 
2006 (42 U.S.C. 16918(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon in paragraph 
        (3);
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) any information about a sex offender for whom the 
        offense giving rise to the duty to register was an offense for 
        which the offender was adjudicated delinquent; and''.

SEC. 6. PROTECTION OF LOCAL GOVERNMENTS FROM STATE NONCOMPLIANCE 
              PENALTY UNDER SORNA.

    Section 125 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 
2006 (42 U.S.C. 16925(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``jurisdiction'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``State'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``subpart 1 of part E'' and 
                inserting ``section 505(c)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``(42 U.S.C. 3750 et seq.)'' and 
                inserting ``(42 U.S.C. 3755(c))''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Calculation of Allocation to Units of Local Government.--
Notwithstanding the formula under section 505(c) of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3755(c)), a State which is 
subject to a reduction in funding under subsection (a) shall--
            ``(1) calculate the amount to be made available to units of 
        local government by the State pursuant to the formula under 
        section 505(c) using the amount that would otherwise be 
        allocated to that State for that fiscal year under section 
        505(c) of that Act, and make such amount available to such 
        units of local government; and
            ``(2) retain for the purposes described in section 501 any 
        amount remaining after the allocation required by paragraph 
        (1).''.

SEC. 7. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN ANNUAL REPORT ON 
              ENFORCEMENT OF REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 635 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 
2006 (42 U.S.C. 16991) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Not later than July 1 of each year'' and 
        inserting ``On January 1 of each year,'';
            (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting before the semicolon at 
        the end the following: ``, and an analysis of any common 
        reasons for noncompliance with such Act'';
            (3) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (4) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (5) by adding after paragraph (5) the following:
            ``(6) the number of sex offenders registered in the 
        National Sex Offender Registry;
            ``(7) the number of sex offenders registered in the 
        National Sex Offender Registry who--
                    ``(A) are adults;
                    ``(B) are juveniles;
                    ``(C) are adults, but who are required to register 
                as a result of conduct committed as a juvenile; and
                    ``(D) were convicted of statutory rape as a result 
                of conduct committed as a juvenile; and
            ``(8) to the extent such information is obtainable, of the 
        number of sex offenders registered in the National Sex Offender 
        Registry who are juveniles--
                    ``(A) the percentage of such offenders who were 
                adjudicated delinquent; and
                    ``(B) the percentage of such offenders who were 
                prosecuted as adults.''.

SEC. 8. ENSURING SUPERVISION OF RELEASED SEXUALLY DANGEROUS PERSONS.

    (a) Probation Officers.--Section 3603 of title 18, United States 
Code, is amended in paragraph (8)(A) by striking ``or 4246'' and 
inserting ``, 4246, or 4248''.
    (b) Pretrial Services Officers.--Section 3154 of title 18, United 
States Code, is amended in paragraph (12)(A) by striking ``or 4246'' 
and inserting ``, 4246, or 4248''.

SEC. 9. CIVIL REMEDY FOR SURVIVORS OF CHILD SEXUAL EXPLOITATION AND 
              HUMAN TRAFFICKING.

    Section 2255(b) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``three years'' and inserting ``10 years''; 
        and
            (2) by inserting ``ends'' before the period at the end.

SEC. 10. TRIBAL ACCESS PROGRAM.

    The Attorney General is authorized to provide technical assistance, 
including equipment, to tribal governments for the purpose of enabling 
such governments to access, enter information into, and obtain 
information from, Federal criminal information databases, as authorized 
under section 534(d) of title 28, United States Code.

SEC. 11. ALTERNATIVE MECHANISMS FOR IN-PERSON VERIFICATION.

    Section 116 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 
2006 (42 U.S.C. 16916) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``A sex offender shall'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), a sex 
offender shall''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Alternative Verification Method.--A jurisdiction may allow a 
sex offender to comply with the requirements under subsection (a) by 
video conference, or another similar method, except that each offender 
shall appear in person not less than one time per year. The Attorney 
General shall approve an alternative verification method described in 
this subsection prior to its implementation by a jurisdiction in order 
to ensure that such method provides for verification that is sufficient 
to ensure the public safety.''.
                                 <all>
