[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1603 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1603

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To actively recruit members of the Armed Forces who are separating from 
  military service to serve as Customs and Border Protection Officers.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Border Jobs for Veterans Act of 
2015''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Customs and Border Protection Officers at United States 
        ports of entry carry out critical law enforcement duties 
        associated with screening foreign visitors, returning United 
        States citizens, and imported cargo entering the United States.
            (2) It is in the national interest for United States ports 
        of entry to be adequately staffed with Customs and Border 
        Protection Officers in a timely fashion, including meeting the 
        congressionally funded staffing target of 23,775 officers for 
        fiscal year 2015.
            (3) An estimated 250,000 to 300,000 members of the Armed 
        Forces separate from military service every year.
            (4) Recruiting efforts and expedited hiring procedures must 
        be enhanced to ensure that qualified individuals separating 
        from military service are aware of, and partake in, 
        opportunities to fill vacant Customs and Border Protection 
        Officer positions.

SEC. 3. EXPEDITED HIRING OF APPROPRIATE SEPARATING SERVICE MEMBERS.

    (a) Identification of Transferable Qualifications.--Not later than 
60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, in conjunction with the Secretary of Defense, shall 
identify Military Occupational Specialty Codes and Officer Branches, 
Air Force Specialty Codes, Naval Enlisted Classifications and Officer 
Designators, and Coast Guard Competencies that are transferable to the 
requirements, qualifications, and duties assigned to Customs and Border 
Protection Officers.
    (b) Hiring.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall consider 
hiring qualified candidates with the Military Occupational Specialty 
Codes, Air Force Specialty Codes, Naval Enlisted Classifications and 
Officer Designators, and Coast Guard Competencies identified as 
transferable under subsection (a) who are eligible for veterans 
recruitment appointment authorized under section 4214 of title 38, 
United States Code.

SEC. 4. ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PROGRAMS TO RECRUIT SERVICE MEMBERS 
              SEPARATING FROM MILITARY SERVICE FOR CUSTOMS AND BORDER 
              PROTECTION OFFICER VACANCIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, in conjunction 
with the Secretary of Defense, and acting through existing programs, 
authorities, and agreements, where applicable, shall enhance the 
efforts of the Department of Homeland Security to recruit members of 
the Armed Forces who are separating from military service to serve as 
Customs and Border Protection Officers.
    (b) Elements.--The enhanced recruiting efforts under subsection (a) 
shall--
            (1) include Customs and Border Protection Officer 
        opportunities in relevant job assistance efforts under the 
        Transition Assistance Program;
            (2) place U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials or 
        other relevant Department of Homeland Security officials at 
        recruiting events and jobs fairs involving members of the Armed 
        Forces who are separating from military service;
            (3) provide opportunities for local U.S. Customs and Border 
        Protection field offices to partner with military bases in the 
        region;
            (4) include outreach efforts to educate members of the 
        Armed Forces with Military Occupational Specialty Codes and 
        Officer Branches, Air Force Specialty Codes, Naval Enlisted 
        Classifications and Officer Designators, and Coast Guard 
        Competencies that are transferable to the requirements, 
        qualifications, and duties assigned to Customs and Border 
        Protection Officers of available hiring opportunities to become 
        Customs and Border Protection Officers;
            (5) require the Secretary of Homeland Security and the 
        Secretary of Defense to work cooperatively to identify shared 
        activities and opportunities for reciprocity related to steps 
        in hiring U.S. Customs and Border Patrol officers with the goal 
        of minimizing the time required to hire qualified applicants;
            (6) require the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security to work cooperatively to ensure the 
        streamlined interagency transfer of relevant background 
        investigations and security clearances; and
            (7) include such other elements as may be necessary to 
        ensure that members of the Armed Forces who are separating from 
        military service are aware of opportunities to fill vacant 
        Customs and Border Protection Officer positions.

SEC. 5. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and not later than December 31 of each of the 3 
successive years, the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary 
of Defense shall jointly submit a report to the appropriate 
congressional committees that includes a description and assessment of 
the efforts of the Department of Homeland Security to hire separating 
service members as Customs and Border Protection Officers.
    (b) Content.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) a detailed description of the proposed efforts under 
        section 4, including--
                    (A) elements of the enhanced recruiting efforts;
                    (B) goals associated with those elements; and
                    (C) a description of how the elements and goals 
                will assist in meeting statutorily mandated staffing 
                levels and agency hiring benchmarks;
            (2) a detailed description of the efforts that have been 
        undertaken under section 4;
            (3) the number of separating service members made aware of 
        Customs and Border Protection Officer vacancies;
            (4) the Military Occupational Specialty Codes and Officer 
        Branches, Air Force Specialty Codes, Naval Enlisted 
        Classifications and Officer Designators, and Coast Guard 
        Competencies identified as transferable under section 3(a) and 
        a rationale for such identifications;
            (5) the number of Customs and Border Protection Officer 
        vacancies filled with separating service members; and
            (6) the number of Customs and Border Protection Officer 
        vacancies filled with separating service members under veterans 
        recruitment appointment authorized under section 4214 of title 
        38, United States Code.

SEC. 6. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this Act may be construed--
     (a) to supersede, alter, or amend existing Federal veterans' 
hiring preferences or Federal hiring authorities; or
    (b) to authorize the appropriation of additional amounts to carry 
out this Act.

            Passed the Senate September 9, 2015.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1603

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To actively recruit members of the Armed Forces who are separating from 
  military service to serve as Customs and Border Protection Officers.
