[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2132 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 251
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2132

 Making appropriations for financial services and general government, 
  Department of the Interior, environment, and Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, and related programs for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 5, 2015

Mr. Cochran (for himself, Ms. Murkowski, and Mr. Blunt) introduced the 
             following bill; which was read the first time

                            October 6, 2015

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for financial services and general government, 
  Department of the Interior, environment, and Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, and related programs for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as ``An Act Making Appropriations to Stop 
Regulatory Excess and for Other Purposes, 2016''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
Sec. 4. Statement of appropriations.
 DIVISION A--FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS 
                               ACT, 2016

   DIVISION B--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016

   DIVISION C--DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND 
        EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016

SEC. 3. REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.

SEC. 4. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2016.

 DIVISION A--FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATIONS 
                               ACT, 2016

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, 
and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties 
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of 
official business; executive direction program activities; 
international affairs and economic policy activities; domestic finance 
and tax policy activities, including technical assistance to State and 
local governments; terrorism and financial intelligence activities; and 
Treasury-wide management policies and programs activities, 
$325,900,000:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading--
            (1) not less than $112,500,000 is for the Office of 
        Terrorism and Financial Intelligence to safeguard the financial 
        system against illicit use and to combat rogue nations, 
        terrorist facilitators, weapons of mass destruction 
        proliferators, money launderers, drug kingpins, and other 
        national security threats;
            (2) not to exceed $350,000 is for official reception and 
        representation expenses;
            (3) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen emergencies of 
        a confidential nature to be allocated and expended under the 
        direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be accounted 
        for solely on the Secretary's certificate; and
            (4) not to exceed $25,200,000 shall remain available until 
        September 30, 2017, for--
                    (A) the Treasury-wide Financial Statement Audit and 
                Internal Control Program;
                    (B) information technology modernization 
                requirements;
                    (C) the audit, oversight, and administration of the 
                Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund;
                    (D) the development and implementation of programs 
                within the Office of Critical Infrastructure Protection 
                and Compliance Policy, including entering into 
                cooperative agreements; and
                    (E) secure space requirements.

        department-wide systems and capital investments programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For development and acquisition of automatic data processing 
equipment, software, and services and for repairs and renovations to 
buildings owned by the Department of the Treasury, $5,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That these funds 
shall be transferred to accounts and in amounts as necessary to satisfy 
the requirements of the Department's offices, bureaus, and other 
organizations:  Provided further, That this transfer authority shall be 
in addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act:  
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be used to support or supplement ``Internal Revenue 
Service, Operations Support'' or ``Internal Revenue Service, Business 
Systems Modernization''.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$35,416,000, including hire of passenger motor vehicles; of which not 
to exceed $100,000 shall be available for unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under the direction 
of the Inspector General of the Treasury; of which up to $2,800,000 to 
remain available until September 30, 2017, shall be for audits and 
investigations conducted pursuant to section 1608 of the Resources and 
Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies 
of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note); and of 
which not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses.

           treasury inspector general for tax administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, including purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 
U.S.C. 1343(b)); and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such 
rates as may be determined by the Inspector General for Tax 
Administration; $167,275,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017; of which not to exceed $6,000,000 
shall be available for official travel expenses; of which not to exceed 
$500,000 shall be available for unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under the direction 
of the Inspector General for Tax Administration; and of which not to 
exceed $1,500 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.

    special inspector general for the troubled asset relief program

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Special Inspector 
General in carrying out the provisions of the Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-343), $36,671,000.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and training 
expenses of non-Federal and foreign government personnel to attend 
meetings and training concerned with domestic and foreign financial 
intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial regulation; 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; not to exceed $10,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; and for assistance to 
Federal law enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, 
$112,979,000, of which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2018.

                        Treasury Forfeiture Fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$700,000,000 are rescinded.

                      Bureau of the Fiscal Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of operations of the Bureau of the Fiscal 
Service, $356,000,000; of which not to exceed $4,210,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018, is for information systems 
modernization initiatives; of which $5,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses; and of which not to 
exceed $19,800,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, is to 
support the Department's activities related to implementation of the 
Digital Accountability and Transparency Act (DATA Act; Public Law 113-
101), including changes in business processes, workforce, or 
information technology to support high quality, transparent Federal 
spending information.
    In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability 
Trust Fund to reimburse administrative and personnel expenses for 
financial management of the Fund, as authorized by section 1012 of 
Public Law 101-380.

                Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of carrying out section 1111 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$101,439,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $50,000 for cooperative research 
and development programs for laboratory services; and provision of 
laboratory assistance to State and local agencies with or without 
reimbursement.

                           United States Mint

               united states mint public enterprise fund

    Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, the 
United States Mint is provided funding through the United States Mint 
Public Enterprise Fund for costs associated with the production of 
circulating coins, numismatic coins, and protective services, including 
both operating expenses and capital investments:  Provided, That the 
aggregate amount of new liabilities and obligations incurred during 
fiscal year 2016 under such section 5136 for circulating coinage and 
protective service capital investments of the United States Mint shall 
not exceed $20,000,000.

   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account

    To carry out the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory 
Improvements Act of 1994 (subtitle A of title I of Public Law 103-325), 
including services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for EX-3, $221,000,000. Of the amount 
appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not less than $161,900,000, notwithstanding section 
        108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)) with regard to 
        Small and/or Emerging Community Development Financial 
        Institutions Assistance awards, is available until September 
        30, 2017, for financial assistance and technical assistance 
        under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 108(a)(1), 
        respectively, of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(a)(1)(A) 
        and (B)), of which up to $3,102,500 may be used for the cost of 
        direct loans:  Provided, That the cost of direct and guaranteed 
        loans, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
        defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
         Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize 
        gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not 
        to exceed $25,000,000;
            (2) not less than $15,000,000, notwithstanding section 
        108(e) of Public Law 103-325 (12 U.S.C. 4707(e)), is available 
        until September 30, 2017, for financial assistance, technical 
        assistance, training and outreach programs designed to benefit 
        Native American, Native Hawaiian, and Alaskan Native 
        communities and provided primarily through qualified community 
        development lender organizations with experience and expertise 
        in community development banking and lending in Indian country, 
        Native American organizations, tribes and tribal organizations, 
        and other suitable providers;
            (3) not less than $21,000,000 is available until September 
        30, 2017, for the Bank Enterprise Award program;
            (4) up to $23,100,000 is available until September 30, 
        2016, for administrative expenses, including administration of 
        CDFI fund programs and the New Markets Tax Credit Program, of 
        which not less than $1,000,000 is for capacity building to 
        expand CDFI investments in underserved rural areas, and up to 
        $300,000 is for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
        loan program; and
            (5) during fiscal year 2016, none of the funds available 
        under this heading are available for the cost, as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
        commitments to guarantee bonds and notes under section 114A of 
        the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act 
        of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4713a):  Provided, That commitments to 
        guarantee bonds and notes under such section 114A shall not 
        exceed $750,000,000:  Provided further, That such section 114A 
        shall remain in effect until September 30, 2016.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                           taxpayer services

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to provide 
taxpayer services, including pre-filing assistance and education, 
filing and account services, taxpayer advocacy services, and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $2,156,554,000, of which not less than 
$5,600,000 shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, of 
which not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for low-income 
taxpayer clinic grants, and of which not less than $12,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017, shall be available for a 
Community Volunteer Income Tax Assistance matching grants program for 
tax return preparation assistance, of which not less than $206,000,000 
shall be available for operating expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate 
Service:  Provided, That of the amounts made available for the Taxpayer 
Advocate Service, not less than $5,000,000 shall be for identity theft 
casework.
    In addition, $90,000,000 is available solely for measurable 
improvements in the customer service representative level of service 
rate, the number of days to resolve tax refund fraud by identity theft 
cases, and the percentage of correspondence the IRS responds to within 
established timeframes:  Provided, That such funds shall supplement and 
not supplant any other amounts made available to the IRS for such 
purposes.

                              enforcement

    For necessary expenses for tax enforcement activities of the 
Internal Revenue Service to determine and collect owed taxes, to 
provide legal and litigation support, to conduct criminal 
investigations, to enforce criminal statutes related to violations of 
internal revenue laws and other financial crimes, to purchase and hire 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to provide other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $4,500,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$50,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2017, and of 
which not less than $57,493,000 shall be for the Interagency Crime and 
Drug Enforcement program.

                           operations support

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to support 
taxpayer services and enforcement programs, including rent payments; 
facilities services; printing; postage; physical security; headquarters 
and other IRS-wide administration activities; research and statistics 
of income; telecommunications; information technology development, 
enhancement, operations, maintenance, and security; the hire of 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); and other services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner; $3,468,446,000, of which not to exceed $50,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2017; of which not to exceed 
$10,000,000 shall remain available until expended for acquisition of 
equipment and construction, repair and renovation of facilities; of 
which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2018, for research; of which not to exceed $1,850,000 shall be for 
the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board; of which not to exceed 
$20,000 shall be for official reception and representation expenses:  
Provided, That not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, 
the Internal Revenue Service shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate and the 
Comptroller General of the United States detailing the cost and 
schedule performance for its major information technology investments, 
including the purpose and life-cycle stages of the investments; the 
reasons for any cost and schedule variances; the risks of such 
investments and strategies the Internal Revenue Service is using to 
mitigate such risks; and the expected developmental milestones to be 
achieved and costs to be incurred in the next quarter:  Provided 
further, That the Internal Revenue Service shall include, in its budget 
justification for fiscal year 2017, a summary of cost and schedule 
performance information for its major information technology systems.

                     business systems modernization

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service's business 
systems modernization program, $260,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018, for the capital asset acquisition of information 
technology systems, including management and related contractual costs 
of said acquisitions, including related Internal Revenue Service labor 
costs, and contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109:  Provided, That not later than 30 days after the end of 
each quarter, the Internal Revenue Service shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate and the Comptroller General of the United States detailing the 
cost and schedule performance for CADE 2 and Modernized e-File 
information technology investments, including the purposes and life-
cycle stages of the investments; the reasons for any cost and schedule 
variances; the risks of such investments and the strategies the 
Internal Revenue Service is using to mitigate such risks; and the 
expected developmental milestones to be achieved and costs to be 
incurred in the next quarter.

          administrative provisions--internal revenue service

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 102.  The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain an employee 
training program, which shall include the following topics: taxpayers' 
rights, dealing courteously with taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, 
ethics, and the impartial application of tax law.
    Sec. 103.  The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and enforce 
policies and procedures that will safeguard the confidentiality of 
taxpayer information and protect taxpayers against identity theft.
    Sec. 104.  Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased staffing to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line 
service for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make 
improvements to the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a 
priority and allocate resources necessary to enhance the response time 
to taxpayer communications, particularly with regard to victims of tax-
related crimes.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available to the Internal Revenue 
Service by this Act may be used to make a video unless the Service-Wide 
Video Editorial Board determines in advance that making the video is 
appropriate, taking into account the cost, topic, tone, and purpose of 
the video.
    Sec. 106.  The Internal Revenue Service shall issue a notice of 
confirmation of any address change relating to an employer making 
employment tax payments, and such notice shall be sent to both the 
employer's former and new address and an officer or employee of the 
Internal Revenue Service shall give special consideration to an offer-
in-compromise from a taxpayer who has been the victim of fraud by a 
third party payroll tax preparer.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used by the Internal Revenue Service to target citizens of the United 
States for exercising any right guaranteed under the First Amendment to 
the Constitution of the United States.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Internal Revenue Service to target groups for regulatory 
scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs.
    Sec. 109.  None of funds made available by this Act to the Internal 
Revenue Service shall be obligated or expended on conferences that do 
not adhere to the procedures, verification processes, documentation 
requirements, and policies issued by the Chief Financial Officer, Human 
Capital Office, and Agency-Wide Shared Services as a result of the 
recommendations in the report published on May 31, 2013, by the 
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration entitled ``Review of 
the August 2010 Small Business/Self-Employed Division's Conference in 
Anaheim, California'' (Reference Number 2013-10-037).
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
(relating to confidentiality and disclosure of returns and return 
information).
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service may be obligated or expended--
            (1) to make a payment to any employee under a bonus, award, 
        or recognition program; or
            (2) under any hiring or personnel selection process with 
        respect to re-hiring a former employee, unless such program or 
        process takes into account the conduct and Federal tax 
        compliance of such employee or former employee.

         Administrative Provisions--Department of the Treasury

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 112.  Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services 
to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 113.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this 
title made available under the headings ``Departmental Offices--
Salaries and Expenses'', ``Office of Inspector General'', ``Special 
Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program'', ``Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network'', ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service'', and 
``Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau'' may be transferred between 
such appropriations upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:  
Provided, That no transfer under this section may increase or decrease 
any such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 114.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration's 
appropriation upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:  
Provided, That no transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 115.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act or otherwise 
available to the Department of the Treasury or the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
    Sec. 116.  The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds from 
the ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service-Salaries and Expenses'' to the Debt 
Collection Fund as necessary to cover the costs of debt collection:  
Provided, That such amounts shall be reimbursed to such salaries and 
expenses account from debt collections received in the Debt Collection 
Fund.
    Sec. 117.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used by the United States 
Mint to construct or operate any museum without the explicit approval 
of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, the House Committee on Financial Services, and the Senate 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    Sec. 118.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act or source to the Department of the 
Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and the United States 
Mint, individually or collectively, may be used to consolidate any or 
all functions of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and the United 
States Mint without the explicit approval of the House Committee on 
Financial Services; the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs; and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 119.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for the Department of the Treasury's 
intelligence or intelligence related activities are deemed to be 
specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 
2016 until the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016.
    Sec. 120.  Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made available from the 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing's Industrial Revolving Fund for 
necessary official reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 121.  The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a Capital 
Investment Plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives not later than 30 days following the 
submission of the annual budget submitted by the President:  Provided, 
That such Capital Investment Plan shall include capital investment 
spending from all accounts within the Department of the Treasury, 
including but not limited to the Department-wide Systems and Capital 
Investment Programs account, Treasury Franchise Fund account, and the 
Treasury Forfeiture Fund account:  Provided further, That such Capital 
Investment Plan shall include expenditures occurring in previous fiscal 
years for each capital investment project that has not been fully 
completed.
    Sec. 122. (a) Not later than 60 days after the end of each quarter, 
the Office of Financial Stability and the Office of Financial Research 
shall submit reports on their activities to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    (b) The reports required under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) the obligations made during the previous quarter by 
        object class, office, and activity;
            (2) the estimated obligations for the remainder of the 
        fiscal year by object class, office, and activity;
            (3) the number of full-time equivalents within each office 
        during the previous quarter;
            (4) the estimated number of full-time equivalents within 
        each office for the remainder of the fiscal year; and
            (5) actions taken to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
        performance measures of each office.
    (c) At the request of any such Committees specified in subsection 
(a), the Office of Financial Stability and the Office of Financial 
Research shall make officials available to testify on the contents of 
the reports required under subsection (a).
    Sec. 123.  Within 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an itemized report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate on the amount of total funds charged to each office by the 
Franchise Fund including the amount charged for each service provided 
by the Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed description of the 
services, a detailed explanation of how each charge for each service is 
calculated, and a description of the role customers have in governing 
in the Franchise Fund.
    Sec. 124.  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the 
appropriate agencies, departments, bureaus, and commissions that have 
expertise in terrorism and complex financial instruments, shall provide 
a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the 
House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs of the Senate not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act on economic warfare and financial terrorism.
    Sec. 125.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be obligated or expended to provide for the 
enforcement of any rule, regulation, policy, or guideline implemented 
pursuant to the Department of the Treasury Guidance for United States 
Positions on MDBs Engaging with Developing Countries on Coal-Fired 
Power Generation dated October 29, 2013, when enforcement of such rule, 
regulation, policy, or guideline would prohibit, or have the effect of 
prohibiting, the carrying out of any coal-fired or other power-
generation project the purpose of which is to increase exports of goods 
and services from the United States or prevent the loss of jobs from 
the United States.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of the Treasury 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.

                                TITLE II

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                               PRESIDENT

                            The White House

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, and travel (not to 
exceed $100,000 to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed $19,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be available for allocation within the 
Executive Office of the President; and for necessary expenses of the 
Office of Policy Development, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, $55,000,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Executive Residence at the White 
House, $12,700,000, to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary:  Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph:  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount 
for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of 
the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses:  Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended:  Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year:  Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable 
operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that 
such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such 
notice:  Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under 31 U.S.C. 3717:  Provided further, That 
each such amount that is reimbursed, and any accompanying interest and 
charges, shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts:  
Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall prepare and submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after 
the end of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a report setting forth 
the reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence during 
the preceding fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, 
the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable official and 
ceremonial events, the amount of such total that consists of 
reimbursable political events, and the portion of each such amount that 
has been reimbursed as of the date of the report:  Provided further, 
That the Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking 
of expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive 
Residence that includes a standard for the classification of any such 
expense as political or nonpolitical:  Provided further, That no 
provision of this paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive 
Residence from any other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II 
of chapter 37 of title 31, United States Code.

                   White House Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 105(d), $625,000, to 
remain available until expended, for required maintenance, resolution 
of safety and health issues, and continued preventative maintenance.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisers in 
carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 
1021 et seq.), $4,184,000.

        National Security Council and Homeland Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council and the 
Homeland Security Council, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $12,600,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $96,116,000, of which not to exceed 
$7,994,000 shall remain available until expended for continued 
modernization of information resources within the Executive Office of 
the President.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 
44, United States Code, and to prepare and submit the budget of the 
United States Government, in accordance with section 1105(a) of title 
31, United States Code, $91,750,000, of which not to exceed $3,000 
shall be available for official representation expenses:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office of 
Management and Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any 
agricultural marketing orders or any activities or regulations under 
the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 
U.S.C. 601 et seq.):  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available for the Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be 
expended for the altering of the transcript of actual testimony of 
witnesses, except for testimony of officials of the Office of 
Management and Budget, before the Committees on Appropriations or their 
subcommittees:  Provided further, That of the funds made available for 
the Office of Management and Budget by this Act, no less than one full-
time equivalent senior staff position shall be dedicated solely to the 
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided in this or prior Acts shall be 
used, directly or indirectly, by the Office of Management and Budget, 
for evaluating or determining if water resource project or study 
reports submitted by the Chief of Engineers acting through the 
Secretary of the Army are in compliance with all applicable laws, 
regulations, and requirements relevant to the Civil Works water 
resource planning process:  Provided further, That the Office of 
Management and Budget shall have not more than 60 days in which to 
perform budgetary policy reviews of water resource matters on which the 
Chief of Engineers has reported:  Provided further, That the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget shall notify the appropriate 
authorizing and appropriating committees when the 60-day review is 
initiated:  Provided further, That if water resource reports have not 
been transmitted to the appropriate authorizing and appropriating 
committees within 15 days after the end of the Office of Management and 
Budget review period based on the notification from the Director, 
Congress shall assume Office of Management and Budget concurrence with 
the report and act accordingly.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-469); not to 
exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
for participation in joint projects or in the provision of services on 
matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or public 
organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement, $20,047,000:  
Provided, That the Office is authorized to accept, hold, administer, 
and utilize gifts, both real and personal, public and private, without 
fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the 
work of the Office.

                     federal drug control programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $245,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2017, for drug control 
activities consistent with the approved strategy for each of the 
designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (``HIDTAs''), of which 
not less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State and local 
entities for drug control activities and shall be obligated not later 
than 120 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided, That up to 49 
percent may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments in 
amounts determined by the Director of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy, of which up to $2,700,000 may be used for auditing 
services and associated activities:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the requirements of Public Law 106-58, any unexpended 
funds obligated prior to fiscal year 2014 may be used for any other 
approved activities of that HIDTA, subject to reprogramming 
requirements:  Provided further, That each HIDTA designated as of 
September 30, 2015, shall be funded at not less than the fiscal year 
2015 base level, unless the Director submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
justification for changes to those levels based on clearly articulated 
priorities and published Office of National Drug Control Policy 
performance measures of effectiveness:  Provided further, That the 
Director shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the initial 
allocation of fiscal year 2016 funding among HIDTAs not later than 45 
days after enactment of this Act, and shall notify the Committees of 
planned uses of discretionary HIDTA funding, as determined in 
consultation with the HIDTA Directors, not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That upon a determination 
that all or part of the funds so transferred from this appropriation 
are not necessary for the purposes provided herein and upon 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, such amounts may be transferred back to 
this appropriation.

                  other federal drug control programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For other drug control activities authorized by the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 
109-469), $108,310,000, to remain available until expended, which shall 
be available as follows: $93,500,000 for the Drug-Free Communities 
Program, of which $2,000,000 shall be made available as directed by 
section 4 of Public Law 107-82, as amended by Public Law 109-469 (21 
U.S.C. 1521 note); $2,000,000 for drug court training and technical 
assistance; $9,500,000 for anti-doping activities; $2,060,000 for the 
United States membership dues to the World Anti-Doping Agency; and 
$1,250,000 shall be made available as directed by section 1105 of 
Public Law 109-469:  Provided, That amounts made available under this 
heading may be transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to 
carry out such activities.

                          Unanticipated Needs

    For expenses necessary to enable the President to meet 
unanticipated needs, in furtherance of the national interest, security, 
or defense which may arise at home or abroad during the current fiscal 
year, as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 108, $800,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017.

              Information Technology Oversight and Reform

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the furtherance of integrated, 
efficient, secure, and effective uses of information technology in the 
Federal Government, $25,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may 
transfer these funds to one or more other agencies to carry out 
projects to meet these purposes:  Provided further, That the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit quarterly reports 
not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate and 
the Government Accountability Office identifying the savings achieved 
by the Office of Management and Budget's government-wide information 
technology reform efforts:  Provided further, That such reports shall 
include savings identified by fiscal year, agency, and appropriation.

                  Special Assistance to the President

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $4,211,000.

                Official Residence of the Vice President

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, and to the 
extent not otherwise provided for, heating and lighting, including 
electric power and fixtures, of the official residence of the Vice 
President; the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed 
$90,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 106(b)(2), $299,000:  Provided, That 
advances, repayments, or transfers from this appropriation may be made 
to any department or agency for expenses of carrying out such 
activities.

Administrative Provisions--Executive Office of the President and Funds 
                     Appropriated to the President

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  From funds made available in this Act under the headings 
``The White House'', ``Executive Residence at the White House'', 
``White House Repair and Restoration'', ``Council of Economic 
Advisers'', ``National Security Council and Homeland Security 
Council'', ``Office of Administration'', ``Special Assistance to the 
President'', and ``Official Residence of the Vice President'', the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget (or such other officer 
as the President may designate in writing), may, with advance approval 
of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 percent of any such appropriation 
to any other such appropriation, to be merged with and available for 
the same time and for the same purposes as the appropriation to which 
transferred:  Provided, That the amount of an appropriation shall not 
be increased by more than 50 percent by such transfers:  Provided 
further, That no amount shall be transferred from ``Special Assistance 
to the President'' or ``Official Residence of the Vice President'' 
without the approval of the Vice President.
    Sec. 202.  Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this 
section, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on the costs of implementing the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-
203). Such report shall include--
            (1) the estimated mandatory and discretionary obligations 
        of funds through fiscal year 2018, by Federal agency and by 
        fiscal year, including--
                    (A) the estimated obligations by cost inputs such 
                as rent, information technology, contracts, and 
                personnel;
                    (B) the methodology and data sources used to 
                calculate such estimated obligations; and
                    (C) the specific section of such Act that requires 
                the obligation of funds; and
            (2) the estimated receipts through fiscal year 2017 from 
        assessments, user fees, and other fees by the Federal agency 
        making the collections, by fiscal year, including--
                    (A) the methodology and data sources used to 
                calculate such estimated collections; and
                    (B) the specific section of such Act that 
                authorizes the collection of funds.
    Sec. 203. (a) During fiscal year 2016, any Executive order issued 
by the President shall be accompanied by a statement from the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget on the budgetary impact, 
including costs, benefits, and revenues, of the Executive order.
    (b) Any such statement shall include--
            (1) a narrative summary of the budgetary impact of such 
        order on the Federal Government;
            (2) the impact on mandatory and discretionary obligations 
        and outlays, listed by Federal agency, for each year in the 5-
        fiscal year period beginning in fiscal year 2016; and
            (3) the impact on revenues of the Federal Government over 
        the 5-fiscal year period beginning in fiscal year 2016.
    (c) If an Executive order is issued during fiscal year 2016 due to 
a national emergency, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget may issue the statement required by subsection (a) not later 
than 15 days after the date that the Executive order is issued.
     This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office of the President 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.

                               TITLE III

                             THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344; not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for miscellaneous expenses, to be expended as the Chief 
Justice may approve, $75,838,000, of which $2,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief justice and associate 
justices of the court.

                    care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect 
of the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon the Architect by 40 
U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $9,964,000, to remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of officers and employees, and for necessary expenses 
of the court, as authorized by law, $30,872,000.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief judge and judges of the 
court.

               United States Court of International Trade

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of officers and employees of the court, services, and 
necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, $18,160,000.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief judge and judges of the 
court.

    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries of judges of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims, magistrate judges, and all other officers and employees of the 
Federal Judiciary not otherwise specifically provided for, necessary 
expenses of the courts, and the purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning 
of uniforms for Probation and Pretrial Services Office staff, as 
authorized by law, $4,960,008,000 (including the purchase of firearms 
and ammunition); of which not to exceed $27,817,000 shall remain 
available until expended for space alteration projects and for 
furniture and furnishings related to new space alteration and 
construction projects.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of circuit and district judges 
(including judges of the territorial courts of the United States), 
bankruptcy judges, and justices and judges retired from office or from 
regular active service.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-660), not to exceed 
$6,045,000, to be appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation 
Trust Fund.

                           defender services

    For the operation of Federal Defender organizations; the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys appointed to 
represent persons under 18 U.S.C. 3006A and 3599, and for the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of persons furnishing 
investigative, expert, and other services for such representations as 
authorized by law; the compensation (in accordance with the maximums 
under 18 U.S.C. 3006A) and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed to assist the court in criminal cases where the defendant has 
waived representation by counsel; the compensation and reimbursement of 
expenses of attorneys appointed to represent jurors in civil actions 
for the protection of their employment, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1875(d)(1); the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1) in connection with certain judicial 
civil forfeiture proceedings; the compensation and reimbursement of 
travel expenses of guardians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C. 
4100(b); and for necessary training and general administrative 
expenses, $1,042,616,000, to remain available until expended.

                    fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71.1(h)), $48,423,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 5 
U.S.C. 5332.

                             court security

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to the 
provision of protective guard services for United States courthouses 
and other facilities housing Federal court operations, and the 
procurement, installation, and maintenance of security systems and 
equipment for United States courthouses and other facilities housing 
Federal court operations, including building ingress-egress control, 
inspection of mail and packages, directed security patrols, perimeter 
security, basic security services provided by the Federal Protective 
Service, and other similar activities as authorized by section 1010 of 
the Judicial Improvement and Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-
702), $538,771,000, of which not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended, to be expended directly or transferred to the 
United States Marshals Service, which shall be responsible for 
administering the Judicial Facility Security Program consistent with 
standards or guidelines agreed to by the Director of the Administrative 
Office of the United States Courts and the Attorney General.

           Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 
31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $86,000,000, of which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Judicial Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
authorized by Public Law 90-219, $27,000,000; of which $1,800,000 shall 
remain available through September 30, 2017, to provide education and 
training to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,500 
is authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                  United States Sentencing Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $17,000,000, of which 
not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                Administrative Provisions--The Judiciary

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 301.  Appropriations and authorizations made in this title 
which are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
except ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Defender Services'' and ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', shall 
be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under sections 604 and 608 of this Act and shall 
not be available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance 
with the procedures set forth in section 608.
    Sec. 303.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services'' shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United 
States:  Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $11,000 
and shall be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office 
of the United States Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the 
Judicial Conference.
    Sec. 304.  Section 3314(a) of title 40, United States Code, shall 
be applied by substituting ``Federal'' for ``executive'' each place it 
appears.
    Sec. 305.  In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561-569, and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States Marshals 
Service shall provide, for such courthouses as its Director may 
designate in consultation with the Director of the Administrative 
Office of the United States Courts, for purposes of a pilot program, 
the security services that 40 U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of 
Homeland Security to provide, except for the services specified in 40 
U.S.C. 1315(b)(2)(E). For building-specific security services at these 
courthouses, the Director of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts shall reimburse the United States Marshals Service rather 
than the Department of Homeland Security.
    Sec. 306. (a) Section 3602(a) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting after the first sentence: ``A person 
        appointed as a probation officer in one district may serve in 
        another district with the consent of the appointing court and 
        the court in the other district.''; and
            (2) by inserting in the last sentence ``appointing'' before 
        ``court may, for cause''.
    Sec. 307. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial Improvements Act of 
1990 (Public Law 101-650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended in the second 
sentence (relating to the District of Kansas) following paragraph (12), 
by striking ``24 years and 6 months'' and inserting ``25 years and 6 
months''.
    (b) Section 406 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban 
Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2470; 
28 U.S.C. 133 note) is amended in the second sentence (relating to the 
eastern District of Missouri) by striking ``22 years and 6 months'' and 
inserting ``23 years and 6 months''.
    (c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century Department of Justice 
Appropriations Authorization Act (Public Law 107-273; 28 U.S.C. 133 
note), is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence by striking ``13 years'' and 
        inserting ``14 years'';
            (2) in the second sentence (relating to the central 
        District of California), by striking ``12 years and 6 months'' 
        and inserting ``13 years and 6 months''; and
            (3) in the third sentence (relating to the western district 
        of North Carolina), by striking ``11 years'' and inserting ``12 
        years''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
2016''.

                                TITLE IV

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                             Federal Funds

              federal payment for resident tuition support

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, to be deposited 
into a dedicated account, for a nationwide program to be administered 
by the Mayor, for District of Columbia resident tuition support, 
$30,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
funds, including any interest accrued thereon, may be used on behalf of 
eligible District of Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon the 
difference between in-State and out-of-State tuition at public 
institutions of higher education, or to pay up to $2,500 each year at 
eligible private institutions of higher education:  Provided further, 
That the awarding of such funds may be prioritized on the basis of a 
resident's academic merit, the income and need of eligible students and 
such other factors as may be authorized:  Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia government shall maintain a dedicated account for 
the Resident Tuition Support Program that shall consist of the Federal 
funds appropriated to the Program in this Act and any subsequent 
appropriations, any unobligated balances from prior fiscal years, and 
any interest earned in this or any fiscal year:  Provided further, That 
the account shall be under the control of the District of Columbia 
Chief Financial Officer, who shall use those funds solely for the 
purposes of carrying out the Resident Tuition Support Program:  
Provided further, That the Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall 
provide a quarterly financial report to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate for these 
funds showing, by object class, the expenditures made and the purpose 
therefor.

   federal payment for emergency planning and security costs in the 
                          district of columbia

    For a Federal payment of necessary expenses, as determined by the 
Mayor of the District of Columbia in written consultation with the 
elected county or city officials of surrounding jurisdictions, 
$13,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the costs of 
providing public safety at events related to the presence of the 
National Capital in the District of Columbia, including support 
requested by the Director of the United States Secret Service in 
carrying out protective duties under the direction of the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, and for the costs of providing support to respond to 
immediate and specific terrorist threats or attacks in the District of 
Columbia or surrounding jurisdictions.

           federal payment to the district of columbia courts

    For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia Courts, 
$246,000,000 to be allocated as follows: for the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals, $14,000,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is for 
official reception and representation expenses; for the Superior Court 
of the District of Columbia, $122,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,500 is for official reception and representation expenses; for the 
District of Columbia Court System, $72,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,500 is for official reception and representation expenses; and 
$38,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, for capital 
improvements for District of Columbia courthouse facilities:  Provided, 
That funds made available for capital improvements shall be expended 
consistent with the District of Columbia Courts master plan study and 
facilities condition assessment:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts under this 
heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and 
Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as funds 
appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies:  
Provided further, That 30 days after providing written notice to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, the District of Columbia Courts may reallocate not more than 
$6,000,000 of the funds provided under this heading among the items and 
entities funded under this heading:  Provided further, That the Joint 
Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia may, 
by regulation, establish a program substantially similar to the program 
set forth in subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, United States 
Code, for employees of the District of Columbia Courts.

  federal payment for defender services in district of columbia courts

    For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 11-2605, 
D.C. Official Code (relating to representation provided under the 
District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act), payments for counsel 
appointed in proceedings in the Family Court of the Superior Court of 
the District of Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official 
Code, or pursuant to contractual agreements to provide guardian ad 
litem representation, training, technical assistance, and such other 
services as are necessary to improve the quality of guardian ad litem 
representation, payments for counsel appointed in adoption proceedings 
under chapter 3 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, and payments 
authorized under section 21-2060, D.C. Official Code (relating to 
services provided under the District of Columbia Guardianship, 
Protective Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986), 
$49,890,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That funds 
provided under this heading shall be administered by the Joint 
Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia:  
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
this appropriation shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of 
Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as 
funds appropriated for expenses of other Federal agencies.

 federal payment to the court services and offender supervision agency 
                      for the district of columbia

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the 
District of Columbia, as authorized by the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, 
$242,000,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 is for official reception 
and representation expenses related to Community Supervision and 
Pretrial Services Agency programs, of which not to exceed $25,000 is 
for dues and assessments relating to the implementation of the Court 
Services and Offender Supervision Agency Interstate Supervision Act of 
2002; of which $181,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses of 
Community Supervision and Sex Offender Registration, to include 
expenses relating to the supervision of adults subject to protection 
orders or the provision of services for or related to such persons, of 
which up to $3,159,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018, 
for the relocation of offender supervision field offices; and of which 
$61,000,000 shall be available to the Pretrial Services Agency:  
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts 
under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of 
Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as 
funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: 
 Provided further, That amounts under this heading may be used for 
programmatic incentives for offenders and defendants successfully 
meeting terms of supervision:  Provided further, That the Director is 
authorized to accept and use gifts in the form of in-kind contributions 
of the following: space and hospitality to support offender and 
defendant programs; equipment, supplies, clothing, and professional 
development and vocational training services and items necessary to 
sustain, educate, and train offenders and defendants, including their 
dependent children; and programmatic incentives for offenders and 
defendants meeting terms of supervision:  Provided further, That the 
Director shall keep accurate and detailed records of the acceptance and 
use of any gift under the previous proviso, and shall make such records 
available for audit and public inspection:  Provided further, That the 
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency Director is authorized 
to accept and use reimbursement from the District of Columbia 
Government for space and services provided on a cost reimbursable 
basis.

  federal payment to the district of columbia public defender service

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the District of Columbia Public Defender Service, as 
authorized by the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
Improvement Act of 1997, $40,889,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, all amounts under this heading shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
salaries and expenses of Federal agencies:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, and in 
addition to the authority provided by the District of Columbia Code 
Section 2-1607(b), upon approval of the Board of Trustees, the District 
of Columbia Public Defender Service may accept and use voluntary and 
uncompensated services for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the 
work of the District of Columbia Public Defender Service:  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding District of Columbia Code section 2-
1603(d), for the purpose of any action brought against the Board of the 
Trustees of the District of Columbia Public Defender Service, the 
trustees shall be deemed to be employees of the Public Defender 
Service.

 federal payment to the district of columbia water and sewer authority

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia Water and Sewer 
Authority, $14,000,000, to remain available until expended, to continue 
implementation of the Combined Sewer Overflow Long-Term Plan:  
Provided, That the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority 
provides a 100 percent match for this payment.

      federal payment to the criminal justice coordinating council

    For a Federal payment to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 
$1,900,000, to remain available until expended, to support initiatives 
related to the coordination of Federal and local criminal justice 
resources in the District of Columbia.

                federal payment for judicial commissions

    For a Federal payment, to remain available until September 30, 
2017, to the Commission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure, $295,000, 
and for the Judicial Nomination Commission, $270,000.

                 federal payment for school improvement

    For a Federal payment for a school improvement program in the 
District of Columbia, $45,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
for payments authorized under the Scholarship for Opportunity and 
Results Act (division C of Public Law 112-10):  Provided, That within 
funds provided for opportunity scholarships $3,200,000 shall be for the 
activities specified in sections 3007(b) through 3007(d) and 3009 of 
the Act.

      federal payment for the district of columbia national guard

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia National Guard, 
$435,000, to remain available until expended for the Major General 
David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Columbia National Guard Retention and 
College Access Program.

         federal payment for testing and treatment of hiv/aids

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for the testing 
of individuals for, and the treatment of individuals with, human 
immunodeficiency virus and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in the 
District of Columbia, $5,000,000.

                       District of Columbia Funds

    Local funds are appropriated for the District of Columbia for the 
current fiscal year out of the General Fund of the District of Columbia 
(``General Fund'') for programs and activities set forth under the 
heading ``District of Columbia Funds Summary of Expenses'' and at the 
rate set forth under such heading, as included in the Fiscal Year 2016 
Budget Request Act of 2015 submitted to the Congress by the District of 
Columbia as amended as of the date of enactment of this Act:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, except as provided in 
section 450A of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (section 1-
204.50a, D.C. Official Code), sections 816 and 817 of the Financial 
Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2009 (secs. 47-
369.01 and 47-369.02, D.C. Official Code), and provisions of this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in this Act for operating expenses for 
the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2016 under this heading shall 
not exceed the estimates included in the Fiscal Year 2016 Budget 
Request Act of 2015 submitted to Congress by the District of Columbia 
as amended as of the date of enactment of this Act or the sum of the 
total revenues of the District of Columbia for such fiscal year:  
Provided further, That the amount appropriated may be increased by 
proceeds of one-time transactions, which are expended for emergency or 
unanticipated operating or capital needs:  Provided further, That such 
increases shall be approved by enactment of local District law and 
shall comply with all reserve requirements contained in the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act:  Provided further, That the Chief Financial 
Officer of the District of Columbia shall take such steps as are 
necessary to assure that the District of Columbia meets these 
requirements, including the apportioning by the Chief Financial Officer 
of the appropriations and funds made available to the District during 
fiscal year 2016, except that the Chief Financial Officer may not 
reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, 
or other obligations issued for capital projects.
    This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.

                                TITLE V

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Administrative Conference of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of the 
United States, authorized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., $3,100,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017, of which not to exceed 
$1,000 is for official reception and representation expenses.

                Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

                        administrative provisions

    Sec. 501.  Section 1017(a)(2)(C) of Public Law 111-203 is repealed.
    Sec. 502.  Effective October 1, 2016, notwithstanding section 1017 
of Public Law 111-203--
            (1) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
        shall not transfer amounts specified under such section to the 
        Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection; and
            (2) there are authorized to be appropriated to the Bureau 
        of Consumer Financial Protection such sums as may be necessary 
        to carry out the authorities of the Bureau under Federal 
        consumer financial law.
    Sec. 503. (a) During fiscal year 2016, on the date on which a 
request is made for a transfer of funds in accordance with section 1017 
of Public Law 111-203, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of 
the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs of the Senate of such request.
    (b)(1) Any such notification shall include the amount of the funds 
requested, an explanation of how the funds will be obligated by object 
class and activity, and why the funds are necessary to protect 
consumers.
    (2) Any notification required by this section shall be made 
available on the Bureau's public Web site.
    Sec. 504. (a) Not later than 2 weeks after the end of each quarter 
of each fiscal year, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall 
submit a report on its activities to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on 
Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
    (b) The reports required under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) the obligations made during the previous quarter by 
        object class, office, and activity;
            (2) the estimated obligations for the remainder of the 
        fiscal year by object class, office, and activity;
            (3) the number of full-time equivalents within each office 
        during the previous quarter;
            (4) the estimated number of full-time equivalents within 
        each office for the remainder of the fiscal year; and
            (5) actions taken to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
        performance measures of each office.
    (c) At the request of any committee specified in subsection (a), 
the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall make Bureau officials 
available to testify on the contents of the reports required under 
subsection (a).
    Sec. 505. (a) In General.--Section 1011 of the Consumer Financial 
Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5491) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (b), (c), and (d);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (c); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Management of the Bureau.--
            ``(1) In general.--The management of the Bureau shall be 
        vested in a Board of Directors consisting of 5 members, who 
        shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and 
        consent of the Senate, from among individuals who--
                    ``(A) are citizens of the United States; and
                    ``(B) have developed strong competency and 
                understanding of, and have experience working with, 
                financial products and services.
            ``(2) Terms.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), each member of the Board, including 
                the Chairperson, shall serve for a term of 5 years.
                    ``(B) Staggered terms.--The members of the Board 
                shall serve staggered terms, which shall initially be 
                for terms of 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years, respectively, and 
                such members shall be appointed such that, after the 
                appointments of the initial 5 members of the Board, 
                members of different political parties are appointed 
                alternately.
                    ``(C) Removal.--The President may remove any member 
                of the Board for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or 
                malfeasance in office.
                    ``(D) Vacancies.--Any member of the Board appointed 
                to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of 
                the term to which the predecessor of that member was 
                appointed (including the Chairperson) shall be 
                appointed only for the remainder of the term.
                    ``(E) Continuation of service.--Each member of the 
                Board may continue to serve after the expiration of the 
                term of office to which that member was appointed until 
                a successor has been appointed by the President and 
                confirmed by the Senate, except that a member may not 
                continue to serve more than 1 year after the date on 
                which the term of that member would otherwise expire.
                    ``(F) Successive terms.--A member of the Board may 
                not be reappointed to a second consecutive term, except 
                that an initial member of the Board appointed for less 
                than a 5-year term may be reappointed to a full 5-year 
                term and a future member appointed to fill an unexpired 
                term may be reappointed for a full 5-year term.
            ``(3) Affiliation.--Not more than 3 members of the Board 
        shall be members of any 1 political party.
            ``(4) Chairperson of the board.--
                    ``(A) Appointment.--The President shall appoint 1 
                of the 5 members of the Board to serve as Chairperson 
                of the Board.
                    ``(B) Authority.--The Chairperson shall be the 
                principal executive officer of the Bureau, and shall 
                exercise all of the executive and administrative 
                functions of the Bureau, including with respect to--
                            ``(i) the supervision of personnel employed 
                        by the Bureau (other than personnel employed 
                        regularly and full time in the immediate 
                        offices of members of the Board other than the 
                        Chairperson);
                            ``(ii) the distribution of business among 
                        personnel appointed and supervised by the 
                        Chairperson and among administrative units of 
                        the Bureau; and
                            ``(iii) the use and expenditure of funds.
                    ``(C) Limitation.--In carrying out any of the 
                functions of the Chairperson under this paragraph, the 
                Chairperson shall be governed by general policies of 
                the Bureau and by such regulatory decisions, findings, 
                and determinations as the Bureau may by law be 
                authorized to make.
                    ``(D) Requests or estimates related to 
                appropriations.--Any request or estimate for regular, 
                supplemental, or deficiency appropriations on behalf of 
                the Bureau, including any request for a transfer of 
                funds under section 1017(a), may not be submitted by 
                the Chairperson without the prior approval of the 
                Board.
                    ``(E) Vacancy.--The President may designate a 
                member of the Board to serve as Acting Chairperson in 
                the event of a vacancy in the office of the 
                Chairperson.
            ``(5) Compensation.--
                    ``(A) Chairperson.--The Chairperson shall receive 
                compensation at the rate prescribed for level I of the 
                Executive Schedule under section 5312 of title 5, 
                United States Code.
                    ``(B) Other members of the board.--The 4 members of 
                the Board other than the Chairperson shall each receive 
                compensation at the rate prescribed for level II of the 
                Executive Schedule under section 5313 of title 5, 
                United States Code.
            ``(6) Other employment prohibited.--A member of the Board 
        may not engage in any other business, vocation, or 
        employment.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2016; or
            (2) the date on which not less than 3 persons have been 
        confirmed by the Senate to serve as members of the Board of 
        Directors of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and the rental of space (to include multiple 
year leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, $250,000,000, 
including not to exceed $3,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, and not to exceed $25,000 for the expenses for 
consultations and meetings hosted by the Commission with foreign 
governmental and other regulatory officials, of which not less than 
$51,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, shall be for 
the purchase of information technology and of which not less than 
$2,620,000 shall be for the Office of the Inspector General.

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
purchase of nominal awards to recognize non-Federal officials' 
contributions to Commission activities, and not to exceed $4,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses, $123,000,000.

                     Election Assistance Commission

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (Public Law 107-252), $9,600,000, of which $1,500,000 shall be 
transferred to the National Institute of Standards and Technology for 
election reform activities authorized under the Help America Vote Act 
of 2002.

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not to exceed $4,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; purchase and hire of motor 
vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $320,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
in addition, $44,168,497 shall be made available until expended for 
necessary expenses associated with moving to a new facility or 
reconfiguring the existing space to significantly reduce space 
consumption:  Provided further, That $364,168,497 of offsetting 
collections shall be assessed and collected pursuant to section 9 of 
title I of the Communications Act of 1934, shall be retained and used 
for necessary expenses and shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2016 so as 
to result in a final fiscal year 2016 appropriation estimated at $0:  
Provided further, That any offsetting collections received in excess of 
$364,168,497 in fiscal year 2016 shall not be available for obligation: 
 Provided further, That remaining offsetting collections from prior 
years collected in excess of the amount specified for collection in 
each such year and otherwise becoming available on October 1, 2015, 
shall not be available for obligation:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from the use of a 
competitive bidding system that may be retained and made available for 
obligation shall not exceed $117,000,000 for fiscal year 2016, 
including not to exceed $518,981 for obligation by the Office of the 
Inspector General:  Provided further, That, of the amount appropriated 
under this heading, not less than $11,090,000 shall be for the salaries 
and expenses of the Office of Inspector General.

      administrative provisions--federal communications commission

    Sec. 510.  Section 302 of the Universal Service Antideficiency 
Temporary Suspension Act is amended by striking ``December 31, 2016'', 
each place it appears and inserting ``December 31, 2017''.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
by the Federal Communications Commission to modify, amend, or change 
its rules or regulations for universal service support payments to 
implement the February 27, 2004 recommendations of the Federal-State 
Joint Board on Universal Service regarding single connection or primary 
line restrictions on universal service support payments.

                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                    office of the inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$34,568,000, to be derived from the Deposit Insurance Fund or, only 
when appropriate, the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, $72,500,000, of which $5,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2017, for lease expiration and 
replacement lease expenses; and of which not to exceed $5,000 shall be 
available for reception and representation expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts and 
consultants, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and including official 
reception and representation expenses (not to exceed $1,500) and rental 
of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
$25,548,000:  Provided, That public members of the Federal Service 
Impasses Panel may be paid travel expenses and per diem in lieu of 
subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed 
intermittently in the Government service, and compensation as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees charged to non-Federal 
participants at labor-management relations conferences shall be 
credited to and merged with this account, to be available without 
further appropriation for the costs of carrying out these conferences.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $300,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available for 
use to contract with a person or persons for collection services in 
accordance with the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $124,000,000 
of offsetting collections derived from fees collected for premerger 
notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements 
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $14,000,000 in offsetting collections 
derived from fees sufficient to implement and enforce the Telemarketing 
Sales Rule, promulgated under the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and 
Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be credited to 
this account, and be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from 
the general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2016, so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 2016 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
than $162,000,000:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the Federal Trade Commission may be used to implement 
subsection (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1831t).

                    General Services Administration

                        real property activities

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Amounts in the Fund, including revenues and collections deposited 
into the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of real 
property management and related activities not otherwise provided for, 
including operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and 
leased buildings; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; 
restoration of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including 
space adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) in 
connection with the assignment, allocation and transfer of space; 
contractual services incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and 
moving; repair and alteration of federally owned buildings including 
grounds, approaches and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise 
authorized by law; acquisition of options to purchase buildings and 
sites; conversion and extension of federally owned buildings; 
preliminary planning and design of projects by contract or otherwise; 
construction of new buildings (including equipment for such buildings); 
and payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for 
public buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase 
contract; in the aggregate amount of $8,304,422,000, of which--
            (1) $181,500,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        construction and acquisition activities (including funds for 
        sites and expenses, and associated design and construction 
        services) for the United States Courthouse in Nashville, 
        Tennessee:  Provided, That the foregoing limit of costs on new 
        construction and acquisition may be exceeded to the extent that 
        savings are effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 
        10 percent of the amounts included in a transmitted prospectus, 
        if required, unless advance approval is obtained from the 
        Committees on Appropriations of a greater amount;
            (2) $357,189,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        repairs and alterations, including associated design and 
        construction services, of which--
                    (A) $157,189,000 is for Major Repair and 
                Alterations activities, including $96,344,000 for the 
                Jacob K. Javits Federal Office Building in New York 
                City, New York, and $60,845,000 for the Edward J. 
                Schwartz Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse in San 
                Diego, California;
                    (B) $200,000,000 is for Basic Repairs and 
                Alterations, Consolidation Activities, the Judiciary 
                Capital Security Program, and the Fire and Life Safety 
                Program:
          Provided, That funds made available in this or any previous 
        Act in the Federal Buildings Fund for Repairs and Alterations 
        shall, for prospectus projects, be limited to the amount 
        identified for each project, except each project in this or any 
        previous Act may be increased by an amount not to exceed 10 
        percent unless advance approval is obtained from the Committees 
        on Appropriations of a greater amount:  Provided further, That 
        additional projects for which prospectuses have been fully 
        approved may be funded under this category only if advance 
        approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations:  
        Provided further, That the amounts provided in this or any 
        prior Act for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund 
        costs associated with implementing security improvements to 
        buildings necessary to meet the minimum standards for security 
        in accordance with current law and in compliance with the 
        reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate Committees of the 
        House and Senate:  Provided further, That the difference 
        between the funds appropriated and expended on any projects in 
        this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and 
        Alterations'', may be transferred to Basic Repairs and 
        Alterations or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
        projects:  Provided further, That the amount provided in this 
        or any prior Act for Basic Repairs and Alterations may be used 
        to pay claims against the Government arising from any projects 
        under the heading ``Repairs and Alterations'' or used to fund 
        authorized increases in prospectus projects;
            (3) $5,521,601,000 for rental of space to remain available 
        until expended; and
            (4) $2,244,132,000 for building operations to remain 
        available until expended:
  Provided further, That the total amount of funds made available from 
this Fund to the General Services Administration shall not be available 
for expenses of any construction, repair, alteration and acquisition 
project for which a prospectus, if required by 40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has 
not been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for each 
project for required expenses for the development of a proposed 
prospectus:  Provided further, That funds available in the Federal 
Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency repairs when advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided 
further, That amounts necessary to provide reimbursable special 
services to other agencies under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to 
provide such reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other 
facilities on private or other property not in Government ownership or 
control as may be appropriate to enable the United States Secret 
Service to perform its protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, 
shall be available from such revenues and collections:  Provided 
further, That revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to 
this Fund during fiscal year 2016, excluding reimbursements under 40 
U.S.C. 592(b)(2), in excess of the aggregate new obligational authority 
authorized for Real Property Activities of the Federal Buildings Fund 
in this Act shall remain in the Fund and shall not be available for 
expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

                           general activities

                         government-wide policy

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and evaluation activities associated with the 
management of real and personal property assets and certain 
administrative services; Government-wide policy support 
responsibilities relating to acquisition, travel, motor vehicles, 
information technology management, and related technology activities; 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $58,000,000.

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide activities associated with utilization and donation of 
surplus personal property; disposal of real property; agency-wide 
policy direction, management, and communications; the Civilian Board of 
Contract Appeals; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; 
$58,560,000, of which not to exceed $7,500 is for official reception 
and representation expenses.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
service authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $65,000,000, of which $2,000,000 
is available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $50,000 
shall be available for payment for information and detection of fraud 
against the Government, including payment for recovery of stolen 
Government property:  Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500 shall 
be available for awards to employees of other Federal agencies and 
private citizens in recognition of efforts and initiatives resulting in 
enhanced Office of Inspector General effectiveness.

           allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958 (3 
U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $3,277,000.

                  pre-election presidential transition

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For activities authorized by the Pre-Election Presidential 
Transition Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-283), not to exceed $13,278,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such 
amounts may be transferred to ``Acquisition Services Fund'' or 
``Federal Buildings Fund'' to reimburse obligations incurred for the 
purposes provided herein in fiscal year 2015:  Provided further, That 
amounts made available under this heading shall be in addition to any 
other amounts available for such purposes.

                     federal citizen services fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Citizen Services and 
Innovative Technologies, including services authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 
and 44 U.S.C. 3604; and for necessary expenses in support of 
interagency projects that enable the Federal Government to enhance its 
ability to conduct activities electronically, through the development 
and implementation of innovative uses of information technology; 
$55,894,000, to be deposited into the Federal Citizen Services Fund:  
Provided, That the previous amount may be transferred to Federal 
agencies to carry out the purpose of the Federal Citizen Services Fund: 
 Provided further, That the appropriations, revenues, reimbursements, 
and collections deposited into the Fund shall be available until 
expended for necessary expenses of Federal Citizen Services and other 
activities that enable the Federal Government to enhance its ability to 
conduct activities electronically in the aggregate amount not to exceed 
$90,000,000:  Provided further, That appropriations, revenues, 
reimbursements, and collections accruing to this Fund during fiscal 
year 2016 in excess of such amount shall remain in the Fund and shall 
not be available for expenditure except as authorized in appropriations 
Acts:  Provided further, That any appropriations provided to the 
Electronic Government Fund that remain unobligated may be transferred 
to the Federal Citizen Services Fund:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authorities provided herein shall be in addition to any other 
transfer authority provided in this Act.

       administrative provisions--general services administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 520.  Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 521.  Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 2016 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements:  Provided, That any proposed transfers shall 
be approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 522.  Except as otherwise provided in this title, funds made 
available by this Act shall be used to transmit a fiscal year 2017 
request for United States Courthouse construction only if the request: 
(1) meets the design guide standards for construction as established 
and approved by the General Services Administration, the Judicial 
Conference of the United States, and the Office of Management and 
Budget; (2) reflects the priorities of the Judicial Conference of the 
United States as set out in its approved 5-year construction plan; and 
(3) includes a standardized courtroom utilization study of each 
facility to be constructed, replaced, or expanded.
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in consideration of the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 524.  From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of Revenue'', claims 
against the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct 
construction projects and acquisition of buildings may be liquidated 
from savings effected in other construction projects with prior 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 525.  In any case in which the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate adopt a resolution granting 
lease authority pursuant to a prospectus transmitted to Congress by the 
Administrator of the General Services Administration under 40 U.S.C. 
3307, the Administrator shall ensure that the delineated area of 
procurement is identical to the delineated area included in the 
prospectus for all lease agreements, except that, if the Administrator 
determines that the delineated area of the procurement should not be 
identical to the delineated area included in the prospectus, the 
Administrator shall provide an explanatory statement to each of such 
committees and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate prior to exercising any lease authority 
provided in the resolution.
    Sec. 526.  With respect to each project funded under the heading 
``Major Repairs and Alterations'' or ``Judiciary Capital Security 
Program'', the Administrator of General Services shall submit a 
spending plan and explanation for each project to be undertaken to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 527.  Any consolidation of the headquarters of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation must result in a full consolidation.

                 Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation

                         salaries and expenses

    For payment to the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation Trust 
Fund, established by section 10 of Public Law 93-642, $1,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, and the Whistleblower Protection 
Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 note), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, direct procurement of 
survey printing, and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $42,740,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017, together with not to exceed $2,345,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017, for administrative expenses to 
adjudicate retirement appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund in amounts determined by the Merit 
Systems Protection Board.

            Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation

            morris k. udall and stewart l. udall trust fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payment to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Trust Fund, 
pursuant to the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation Act (20 
U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), $1,995,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which, notwithstanding sections 8 and 9 of such Act: (1) up to 
$50,000 shall be used to conduct financial audits pursuant to the 
Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-289); and (2) 
up to $1,000,000 shall be available to carry out the activities 
authorized by section 6(7) of Public Law 102-259 and section 817(a) of 
Public Law 106-568 (20 U.S.C. 5604(7)):  Provided, That of the total 
amount made available under this heading $200,000 shall be transferred 
to the Office of Inspector General of the Department of the Interior, 
to remain available until expended, for audits and investigations of 
the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation, consistent with 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).

                 environmental dispute resolution fund

    For payment to the Environmental Dispute Resolution Fund to carry 
out activities authorized in the Environmental Policy and Conflict 
Resolution Act of 1998, $3,400,000, to remain available until expended.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives and Records Administration and archived Federal 
records and related activities, as provided by law, and for expenses 
necessary for the review and declassification of documents, the 
activities of the Public Interest Declassification Board, the 
operations and maintenance of the electronic records archives, the hire 
of passenger motor vehicles, and for uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, 
and cleaning, $372,000,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Reform Act of 
2008, Public Law 110-409, 122 Stat. 4302-16 (2008), and the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), and for the hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $4,180,000.

                        repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $7,500,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That from amounts made available 
under this heading in Public Laws 111-8 and 111-117 for necessary 
expenses related to the repair and renovation of the Franklin D. 
Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum in Hyde Park, New York, the 
remaining unobligated balances shall be available to implement the 
National Archives and Records Administration Capital Improvement Plan.

         national historical publications and records commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, $5,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                  National Credit Union Administration

               community development revolving loan fund

    For the Community Development Revolving Loan Fund program as 
authorized by 42 U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $2,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2017, for technical assistance to low-
income designated credit unions.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, the 
Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the Stop Trading on Congressional 
Knowledge Act of 2012, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 
for official reception and representation expenses, $15,420,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management (OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 
of 1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of OPM and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for expenses 
incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as 
amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to 
employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an employee to 
remain overnight at his or her post of duty, $119,239,000, of which 
$616,000 may be for strengthening the capacity and capabilities of the 
acquisition workforce (as defined by the Office of Federal Procurement 
Policy Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.)), including the 
recruitment, hiring, training, and retention of such workforce and 
information technology in support of acquisition workforce 
effectiveness or for management solutions to improve acquisition 
management; and in addition $118,425,000 for administrative expenses, 
to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds of OPM without 
regard to other statutes, including direct procurement of printed 
materials, for the retirement and insurance programs:  Provided, That 
the provisions of this appropriation shall not affect the authority to 
use applicable trust funds as provided by sections 8348(a)(1)(B), 
8958(f)(2)(A), 8988(f)(2)(A), and 9004(f)(2)(A) of title 5, United 
States Code:  Provided further, That no part of this appropriation 
shall be available for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining 
Unit of OPM established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 of July 1, 
1943, or any successor unit of like purpose:  Provided further, That 
the President's Commission on White House Fellows, established by 
Executive Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, during fiscal year 
2016, accept donations of money, property, and personal services:  
Provided further, That such donations, including those from prior 
years, may be used for the development of publicity materials to 
provide information about the White House Fellows, except that no such 
donations shall be accepted for travel or reimbursement of travel 
expenses, or for the salaries of employees of such Commission.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $4,384,000, and in addition, not to exceed $22,479,000 
for administrative expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other 
oversight of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds 
of the Office of Personnel Management, as determined by the Inspector 
General:  Provided, That the Inspector General is authorized to rent 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12) as amended by Public Law 
107-304, the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 (Public 
Law 112-199), and the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment 
Rights Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-353), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses for 
witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; $23,500,000.

                      Postal Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Postal Regulatory Commission in 
carrying out the provisions of the Postal Accountability and 
Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435), $15,000,000, to be derived by 
transfer from the Postal Service Fund and expended as authorized by 
section 603(a) of such Act.

              Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight 
Board, as authorized by section 1061 of the Intelligence Reform and 
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C. 2000ee), $23,297,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $1,500,000,000, to remain available until 
expended; of which not less than $11,315,971 shall be for the Office of 
Inspector General; of which not to exceed $75,000 shall be available 
for a permanent secretariat for the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions; of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be 
available for expenses for consultations and meetings hosted by the 
Commission with foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, 
members of their delegations and staffs to exchange views concerning 
securities matters, such expenses to include necessary logistic and 
administrative expenses and the expenses of Commission staff and 
foreign invitees in attendance including: (1) incidental expenses such 
as meals; (2) travel and transportation; and (3) related lodging or 
subsistence; and of which not less than $60,971,000 shall be for the 
Division of Economic and Risk Analysis:  Provided, That fees and 
charges authorized by section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(15 U.S.C. 78ee) shall be credited to this account as offsetting 
collections:  Provided further, That not to exceed $1,500,000,000 of 
such offsetting collections shall be available until expended for 
necessary expenses of this account:  Provided further, That the total 
amount appropriated under this heading from the general fund for fiscal 
year 2016 shall be reduced as such offsetting fees are received so as 
to result in a final total fiscal year 2016 appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at not more than $0.

                        Selective Service System

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian employees; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed 
$750 for official reception and representation expenses; $22,703,000:  
Provided, That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt 
this appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever the 
President deems such action to be necessary in the interest of national 
defense:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this 
Act may be expended for or in connection with the induction of any 
person into the Armed Forces of the United States.

                     Small Business Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration, including hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of title 31, United States Code, 
and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $257,000,000, of which not less than $12,000,000 shall be 
available for examinations, reviews, and other lender oversight 
activities:  Provided, That the Administrator is authorized to charge 
fees to cover the cost of publications developed by the Small Business 
Administration, and certain loan program activities, including fees 
authorized by section 5(b) of the Small Business Act:  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received from 
all such activities shall be credited to this account, to remain 
available until expended, for carrying out these purposes without 
further appropriations:  Provided further, That the Small Business 
Administration may accept gifts in an amount not to exceed $4,000,000 
and may co-sponsor activities, each in accordance with section 132(a) 
of division K of Public Law 108-447, during fiscal year 2016:  Provided 
further, That $6,100,000 shall be available for the Loan Modernization 
and Accounting System, to be available until September 30, 2017:  
Provided further, That $3,000,000 shall be for the Federal and State 
Technology Partnership Program under section 34 of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 657d).

                  entrepreneurial development programs

    For necessary expenses of programs supporting entrepreneurial and 
small business development, $220,150,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That $115,000,000 shall be available to 
fund grants for performance in fiscal year 2016 or fiscal year 2017 as 
authorized by section 21 of the Small Business Act:  Provided further, 
That $25,000,000 shall be for marketing, management, and technical 
assistance under section 7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that make microloans under the microloan 
program:  Provided further, That $17,400,000 shall be available for 
grants to States to carry out export programs that assist small 
business concerns authorized under section 1207 of Public Law 111-240.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$19,900,000.

                           office of advocacy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Advocacy in carrying out 
the provisions of title II of Public Law 94-305 (15 U.S.C. 634a et 
seq.) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et 
seq.), $9,120,000, to remain available until expended.

                     business loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $3,338,172, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That subject to section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2016 
commitments to guarantee loans under section 503 of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed $7,500,000,000:  Provided 
further, That during fiscal year 2016 commitments for general business 
loans authorized under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act shall not 
exceed $23,500,000,000 for a combination of amortizing term loans and 
the aggregated maximum line of credit provided by revolving loans:  
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2016 commitments for loans 
authorized under subparagraph (C) of section 502(7) of The Small 
Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 696(7)) shall not exceed 
$7,500,000:  Provided further, That during fiscal year 2016 commitments 
to guarantee loans for debentures under section 303(b) of the Small 
Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not exceed $4,000,000,000:  
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2016, guarantees of trust 
certificates authorized by section 5(g) of the Small Business Act shall 
not exceed a principal amount of $12,000,000,000. In addition, for 
administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed loan 
programs, $152,725,828, which may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for Salaries and Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by section 7(b) of the Small Business Act, $186,858,000, to 
be available until expended, of which $1,000,000 is for the Office of 
Inspector General of the Small Business Administration for audits and 
reviews of disaster loans and the disaster loan programs and shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for the Office of 
Inspector General; of which $176,858,000 is for direct administrative 
expenses of loan making and servicing to carry out the direct loan 
program, which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriations 
for Salaries and Expenses; and of which $9,000,000 is for indirect 
administrative expenses for the direct loan program, which may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and 
Expenses:  Provided, That, of the funds provided herein, $158,829,000 
shall be for major disasters declared pursuant to the Robert T. 
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5122(2)); $151,179,014 is for direct administrative expenses of loan 
making and servicing to carry out the direct loan program; and 
$7,649,986 is for indirect administrative expenses for the direct loan 
program:  Provided further, That the amount for major disasters under 
this heading is designated by Congress as being for disaster relief 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177), as amended.

        administrative provisions--small business administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 530.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Small Business 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by more 
than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 608 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.
    Sec. 531. (a) None of the funds made available under this Act may 
be used to collect a guarantee fee under section 7(a)(18) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(18)) with respect to a loan guaranteed 
under section 7(a)(31) of such Act that is made to a small business 
concern (as defined under section 3 of such Act (15 U.S.C. 632)) that 
is 51 percent or more owned and controlled by 1 or more individuals who 
is a veteran (as defined in section 101 of title 38, United States 
Code) or the spouse of a veteran.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the 
authority of the Administrator of the Small Business Administration to 
waive such a guarantee fee or any other loan fee with respect to a loan 
to a small business concern described in subsection (a) or any other 
borrower.
    Sec. 532.  Subparagraph (C) of section 502(7) of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C 696(7)), as in effect on September 25, 
2012, shall be in effect during fiscal year 2016.

                      United States Postal Service

                   payment to the postal service fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $49,923,000, which shall not be 
available for obligation until October 1, 2016:  Provided, That mail 
for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to be free:  
Provided further, That 6-day delivery and rural delivery of mail shall 
continue at not less than the 1983 level:  Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available to the Postal Service by this Act shall be 
used to implement any rule, regulation, or policy of charging any 
officer or employee of any State or local child support enforcement 
agency, or any individual participating in a State or local program of 
child support enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided 
concerning an address of a postal customer:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or 
close small rural and other small post offices.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$243,883,000, to be derived by transfer from the Postal Service Fund 
and expended as authorized by section 603(b)(3) of the Postal 
Accountability and Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435).

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $51,300,000:  Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.

                                TITLE VI

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

                         (including rescission)

    Sec. 601.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 602.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 603.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 605.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, 
or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
    Sec. 606.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with chapter 83 of title 41, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 607.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    Sec. 608.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the agencies or entities funded in this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2016, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees and 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) 
creates a new program; (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity; 
(3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, or activity 
for which funds have been denied or restricted by the Congress; (4) 
proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity by the Committee 
on Appropriations of either the House of Representatives or the Senate 
for a different purpose; (5) augments existing programs, projects, or 
activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; 
(6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by $5,000,000 or 
10 percent, whichever is less; or (7) creates or reorganizes offices, 
programs, or activities unless prior approval is received from the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate:  Provided, That prior to any significant reorganization or 
restructuring of offices, programs, or activities, each agency or 
entity funded in this Act shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate:  
Provided further, That not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this Act shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate to establish the baseline for 
application of reprogramming and transfer authorities for the current 
fiscal year:  Provided further, That at a minimum the report shall 
include: (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column to 
display the President's budget request, adjustments made by Congress, 
adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the fiscal 
year enacted level; (2) a delineation in the table for each 
appropriation both by object class and program, project, and activity 
as detailed in the budget appendix for the respective appropriation; 
and (3) an identification of items of special congressional interest:  
Provided further, That the amount appropriated or limited for salaries 
and expenses for an agency shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for 
each day after the required date that the report has not been submitted 
to the Congress.
    Sec. 609.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2016 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2016 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2017, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized:  Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate for approval prior to the expenditure of such funds:  Provided 
further, That these requests shall be made in compliance with 
reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 610. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used by the Executive Office of the President to request--
            (1) any official background investigation report on any 
        individual from the Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
            (2) a determination with respect to the treatment of an 
        organization as described in section 501(c) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 
        501(a) of such Code from the Department of the Treasury or the 
        Internal Revenue Service.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply--
            (1) in the case of an official background investigation 
        report, if such individual has given express written consent 
        for such request not more than 6 months prior to the date of 
        such request and during the same presidential administration; 
        or
            (2) if such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.
    Sec. 611.  The cost accounting standards promulgated under chapter 
15 of title 41, United States Code shall not apply with respect to a 
contract under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program 
established under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 612.  For the purpose of resolving litigation and implementing 
any settlement agreements regarding the nonforeign area cost-of-living 
allowance program, the Office of Personnel Management may accept and 
utilize (without regard to any restriction on unanticipated travel 
expenses imposed in an Appropriations Act) funds made available to the 
Office of Personnel Management pursuant to court approval.
    Sec. 613.  No funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to 
pay for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in connection with 
any health plan under the Federal employees health benefits program 
which provides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
    Sec. 614.  The provision of section 613 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 615.  In order to promote Government access to commercial 
information technology, the restriction on purchasing nondomestic 
articles, materials, and supplies set forth in chapter 83 of title 41, 
United States Code (popularly known as the Buy American Act), shall not 
apply to the acquisition by the Federal Government of information 
technology (as defined in section 11101 of title 40, United States 
Code), that is a commercial item (as defined in section 103 of title 
41, United States Code).
    Sec. 616.  Notwithstanding section 1353 of title 31, United States 
Code, no officer or employee of any regulatory agency or commission 
funded by this Act may accept on behalf of that agency, nor may such 
agency or commission accept, payment or reimbursement from a non-
Federal entity for travel, subsistence, or related expenses for the 
purpose of enabling an officer or employee to attend and participate in 
any meeting or similar function relating to the official duties of the 
officer or employee when the entity offering payment or reimbursement 
is a person or entity subject to regulation by such agency or 
commission, or represents a person or entity subject to regulation by 
such agency or commission, unless the person or entity is an 
organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
    Sec. 617.  Notwithstanding section 708 of this Act, funds made 
available to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the 
Securities and Exchange Commission by this or any other Act may be used 
for the interagency funding and sponsorship of a joint advisory 
committee to advise on emerging regulatory issues.
    Sec. 618. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an 
Executive agency covered by this Act otherwise authorized to enter into 
contracts for either leases or the construction or alteration of real 
property for office, meeting, storage, or other space must consult with 
the General Services Administration before issuing a solicitation for 
offers of new leases or construction contracts, and in the case of 
succeeding leases, before entering into negotiations with the current 
lessor.
    (2) Any such agency with authority to enter into an emergency lease 
may do so during any period declared by the President to require 
emergency leasing authority with respect to such agency.
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive agency 
covered by this Act'' means any Executive agency provided funds by this 
Act, but does not include the General Services Administration or the 
United States Postal Service.
    Sec. 619. (a) There are appropriated for the following activities 
the amounts required under current law:
            (1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C. 102).
            (2) Payments to--
                    (A) the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund (28 
                U.S.C. 377(o));
                    (B) the Judicial Survivors' Annuities Fund (28 
                U.S.C. 376(c)); and
                    (C) the United States Court of Federal Claims 
                Judges' Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C. 178(l)).
            (3) Payment of Government contributions--
                    (A) with respect to the health benefits of retired 
                employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, 
                United States Code, and the Retired Federal Employees 
                Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849); and
                    (B) with respect to the life insurance benefits for 
                employees retiring after December 31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. 
                ch. 87).
            (4) Payment to finance the unfunded liability of new and 
        increased annuity benefits under the Civil Service Retirement 
        and Disability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
            (5) Payment of annuities authorized to be paid from the 
        Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund by statutory 
        provisions other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 
        84 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Nothing in this section may be construed to exempt any amount 
appropriated by this section from any otherwise applicable limitation 
on the use of funds contained in this Act.
    Sec. 620.  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (Board) 
shall have authority to obligate funds for the scholarship program 
established by section 109(c)(2) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
(Public Law 107-204) in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
funds collected by the Board as of December 31, 2015, including accrued 
interest, as a result of the assessment of monetary penalties. Funds 
available for obligation in fiscal year 2016 shall remain available 
until expended.
    Sec. 621.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Federal Trade Commission to complete the draft report entitled 
``Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to Children: Preliminary 
Proposed Nutrition Principles to Guide Industry Self-Regulatory 
Efforts'' unless the Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to 
Children complies with Executive Order No. 13563.
    Sec. 622.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries and expenses for the following positions:
            (1) Director, White House Office of Health Reform.
            (2) Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate 
        Change.
            (3) Senior Advisor to the Secretary of the Treasury 
        assigned to the Presidential Task Force on the Auto Industry 
        and Senior Counselor for Manufacturing Policy.
            (4) White House Director of Urban Affairs.
    Sec. 623.  None of the funds in this Act may be used for the 
Director of the Office of Personnel Management to award a contract, 
enter an extension of, or exercise an option on a contract to a 
contractor conducting the final quality review processes for background 
investigation fieldwork services or background investigation support 
services that, as of the date of the award of the contract, are being 
conducted by that contractor.
    Sec. 624.  Each executive agency covered by this Act shall include, 
in its fiscal year 2017 budget justification materials submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, a separate table briefly describing the top management 
challenges for fiscal year 2016 as identified by the agency inspector 
general, together with an explanation of how the fiscal year 2017 
budget request addresses each such management challenge.
    Sec. 625. (a) The head of each executive branch agency funded by 
this Act shall ensure that the Chief Information Officer of the agency 
has the authority to participate in decisions regarding the budget 
planning process related to information technology.
    (b) Amounts appropriated for any executive branch agency funded by 
this Act that are available for information technology shall be 
allocated within the agency, consistent with the provisions of 
appropriations Acts and budget guidelines and recommendations from the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in such manner as 
specified by, or approved by, the Chief Information Officer of the 
agency in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer of the agency 
and budget officials.
    Sec. 626.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 44, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 627.  From the unobligated balances available in the 
Securities and Exchange Commission Reserve Fund established by section 
991 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
(Public Law 111-203), $25,000,000 are rescinded.
    Sec. 628.  The head of any executive branch department, agency, 
board, commission, or office funded by this Act shall require that all 
contracts within their purview that provide award fees link such fees 
to successful acquisition outcomes, specifying the terms of cost, 
schedule, and performance.
    Sec. 629.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to pay award or incentive fees for contractor performance that has 
been judged to be below satisfactory performance or performance that 
does not meet the basic requirements of a contract.
    Sec. 630. (a) Treatment of Payment for Public Communication as 
Contribution if Made Under Control or Direction of Candidate.--Section 
301(8)(A) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 
30101(8)(A)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``or'' at the end of clause (i);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of clause (ii) and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(iii) any payment by a political 
                        committee of a political party for the direct 
                        costs of a public communication (as defined in 
                        paragraph (22)) made on behalf of a candidate 
                        for Federal office who is affiliated with such 
                        party, but only if the communication is 
                        controlled by, or made at the direction of, the 
                        candidate or an authorized committee of the 
                        candidate.''.
    (b) Requiring Control or Direction by Candidate for Treatment as 
Coordinated Party Expenditure.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (4) of section 315(d) of such 
        Act (52 U.S.C. 30116(d)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) Special rule for direct costs of communications.--The 
        direct costs incurred by a political committee of a political 
        party for a communication made in connection with the campaign 
        of a candidate for Federal office shall not be subject to the 
        limitations contained in paragraphs (2) and (3) unless the 
        communication is controlled by, or made at the direction of, 
        the candidate or an authorized committee of the candidate.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Paragraph (1) of section 315(d) 
        of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30116(d)) is amended by striking 
        ``paragraphs (2), (3), and (4)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (2) 
        and (3)''.
    Sec. 631.  Section 302(g) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (52 U.S.C. 30102(g)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Filing With the Commission.--All designations, statements, 
and reports required to be filed under this Act shall be filed with the 
Commission.''.
    Sec. 632.  On and after the date of enactment of this Act, in the 
case of a party to a joint sales agreement (as defined in Note 2(k) to 
section 73.3555 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations) that is in 
effect on the effective date of the amendment to Note 2(k)(2) to that 
section made by the Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Report 
and Order adopted by the Federal Communications Commission on March 31, 
2014 (FCC 14-28), the party shall not be considered to be in violation 
of the ownership limitations of that section by reason of the 
application of the rule in Note 2(k)(2), as so amended, to the joint 
sales agreement.
    Sec. 633.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to regulate, directly or indirectly, the prices or related terms (as 
such terms are described in paragraph 164 of the Report and Order on 
Remand, Declaratory Ruling, and Order in the matter of protecting and 
promoting the open Internet, adopted by the Federal Communications 
Commission on February 26, 2015 (FCC 15-24)) charged or imposed by 
providers of broadband Internet access service (as defined in the final 
rules in Appendix A of such Report and Order on Remand, Declaratory 
Ruling, and Order) for such service, regardless of whether such 
regulation takes the form of requirements for future conduct or 
enforcement regarding past conduct.
    Sec. 634.  None of the amounts made available by this Act may be 
used to finalize or implement the Safety Standard for Recreational Off-
Highway Vehicles published by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in 
the Federal Register on November 19, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 68964) until 
after--
            (1) the National Academy of Sciences, in consultation with 
        the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the 
        Department of Defense, completes a study to determine--
                    (A) the technical validity of the lateral stability 
                and vehicle handling requirements proposed by such 
                standard for purposes of reducing the risk of 
                Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle (referred to in this 
                section as ``ROV'') rollovers in the off-road 
                environment, including the repeatability and 
                reproducibility of testing for compliance with such 
                requirements;
                    (B) the number of ROV rollovers that would be 
                prevented if the proposed requirements were adopted;
                    (C) whether there is a technical basis for the 
                proposal to provide information on a point-of-sale 
                hangtag about a ROV's rollover resistance on a 
                progressive scale; and
                    (D) the effect on the utility of ROVs used by the 
                United States military if the proposed requirements 
                were adopted; and
            (2) a report containing the results of the study completed 
        under paragraph (1) is delivered to--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (C) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; 
                and
                    (D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.
    Sec. 635.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to 
exceed $2,266,085 of unobligated balances from ``Election Assistance 
Commission, Election Reform Programs'' shall be available to record a 
disbursement previously incurred under that heading in fiscal year 2014 
against a 2008 cancelled account.
    Sec. 636.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
by the Federal Communications Commission to modify, amend, or change 
the rules or regulations of the Commission for universal service high-
cost support for competitive eligible telecommunications carriers in a 
way that is inconsistent with paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of section 
54.307 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on July 
15, 2015:  Provided, That this section shall not prohibit the 
Commission from considering, developing, or adopting other support 
mechanisms as an alternative to Mobility Fund Phase II.
    Sec. 637. (a) Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010.--The 
Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 1002 (12 U.S.C. 5481)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (10) and inserting:
            ``(10) Board.--The term `Board' means the Board of 
        Directors of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.''; 
        and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (29) the 
                following:
            ``(30) Chairperson.--The term `Chairperson' means the 
        Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Bureau of Consumer 
        Financial Protection.'';
            (2) in section 1012 (12 U.S.C. 5492)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(8), by striking ``appointed 
                and supervised by the Director'' and inserting 
                ``appointed by the Board and supervised by the 
                Chairperson'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``Director'' and 
                inserting ``Board''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking 
                        ``Director'' and inserting ``Board''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (4), by striking ``the 
                        Director'' each place that term appears and 
                        inserting ``any member of the Board'';
            (3) in section 1013 (12 U.S.C. 5493)--
                    (A) in subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e), by 
                striking ``Director'' each place that term appears and 
                inserting ``Board'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking 
                        ``Director'' each place that term appears and 
                        inserting ``Board''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) by striking ``Assistant 
                                Director'' each place that term appears 
                                and inserting ``Head of Office''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``the Director'' 
                                each place that term appears and 
                                inserting ``the Board'';
                    (C) in subsection (g)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                        ``Director'' and inserting ``Board''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) in the paragraph heading, by 
                                striking ``Assistant director'' and 
                                inserting ``Head of the office''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``an assistant 
                                director'' and inserting ``the Head of 
                                the Office of Financial Protection for 
                                Older Americans'';
            (4) in section 1014 (12 U.S.C. 5494), by striking 
        ``Director'' each place that term appears and inserting 
        ``Board'';
            (5) in section 1016(a) (12 U.S.C. 5496(a)), by striking 
        ``Director of the Bureau'' and inserting ``Chairperson'';
            (6) in section 1017--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                        ``Director'' and inserting ``Board'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (4)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``Director 
                                        shall'' and inserting ``Board 
                                        shall'';
                                            (bb) by striking 
                                        ``Director,'' and inserting 
                                        ``Board,''; and
                                            (cc) by striking ``Director 
                                        in'' each place that term 
                                        appears and inserting ``Board 
                                        in'';
                                    (II) in subparagraph (D), by 
                                striking ``Director'' and inserting 
                                ``Board''; and
                                    (III) in subparagraph (E), by 
                                striking ``Director to'' and inserting 
                                ``Board to''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (5)(C), by striking 
                        ``Director of the Bureau'' and inserting 
                        ``Chairperson'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Director,'' and inserting 
                        ``Board,''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Director and'' and 
                        inserting ``the members of the Board and''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e), by striking ``Director'' 
                each place that term appears and inserting ``Board'';
            (7) in subtitles B (12 U.S.C. 5511 et seq.), C (12 U.S.C. 
        5531 et seq.), and G (12 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.), by striking 
        ``Director'' each place that term appears and inserting 
        ``Board'';
            (8) in section 1061(c)(2)(C)(i) (12 U.S.C. 
        5581(c)(2)(C)(i)), by striking ``the Board'' and inserting 
        ``the National Credit Union Administration Board''; and
            (9) in section 1066(a) (12 U.S.C. 5586(a)), by inserting 
        ``first'' before ``Director''.
    (b) Financial Stability Act of 2010.--Section 111(b)(1)(D) of the 
Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5321(b)(1)(D)) is amended by 
striking ``Director of the Bureau'' and inserting ``Chairperson of the 
Board of Directors of the Bureau''.
    (c) Mortgage Reform and Anti-predatory Lending Act.--Section 1447 
of the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act (12 U.S.C. 1701p-
2) is amended by striking ``Director'' each place the term appears and 
inserting ``Board of Directors''.
    (d) Electronic Fund Transfer Act.--Section 920(a)(4)(C) of the 
Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693o-2(a)(4)(C)) is amended by 
striking ``Director of the Bureau'' and inserting ``Board of Directors 
of the Bureau''.
    (e) Expedited Funds Availability Act.--The Expedited Funds 
Availability Act (12 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.) is amended by striking 
``Director of the Bureau'' each place that term appears and inserting 
``Board of Directors of the Bureau''.
    (f) Federal Deposit Insurance Act.--Section 2 of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1812) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Director of the Consumer Financial 
        Protection Bureau'' each place that term appears and inserting 
        ``Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Bureau of 
        Consumer Financial Protection''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ``Comptroller or 
        Director'' and inserting ``Comptroller or Chairperson''.
    (g) Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Act of 
1978.--Section 1004(a)(4) of the Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3303(a)(4)) is amended by 
striking ``Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau'' and 
inserting ``Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection''.
    (h) Financial Literacy and Education Improvement Act.--Section 513 
of the Financial Literacy and Education Improvement Act (20 U.S.C. 
9702) is amended by striking ``Director'' each place that term appears 
and inserting ``Chairperson of the Board of Directors''.
    (i) Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975.--Section 307 of the Home 
Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2806) is amended by striking 
``Director of the Bureau of Consumer'' each place that term appears and 
inserting ``Board of Directors of the Bureau of Consumer''.
    (j) Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act.--The Interstate Land 
Sales Full Disclosure Act (15 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 1402(1) (15 U.S.C. 1701(1)), by striking 
        ```Director' means the Director'' and inserting ```Board' means 
        the Board of Directors'';
            (2) by striking ``Director'' each place that term appears 
        and inserting ``Board'';
            (3) in section 1403(c) (15 U.S.C. 1702(c))--
                    (A) by striking ``by him'' and inserting ``by the 
                Board''; and
                    (B) by striking ``he'' and inserting ``the Board'';
            (4) in section 1407 (15 U.S.C. 1706)--
                    (A) in subsection (c), by striking ``he'' and 
                inserting ``the Board''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e), by striking ``him'' and 
                inserting ``the Board'';
            (5) in section 1411 (15 U.S.C. 1710)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``his findings'' and 
                        inserting ``its finding''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``his recommendation'' and 
                        inserting ``a recommendation''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``Secretary's 
                order'' and inserting ``order of the Board'';
            (6) in section 1415 (15 U.S.C. 1714)--
                    (A) by striking ``him'' each place that term 
                appears and inserting ``the Board'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``he may, in his 
                discretion'' and inserting ``the Board may, at the 
                discretion of the Board'';
                    (C) in subsection (b), by striking ``he'' each time 
                that term appears and inserting ``the Board''; and
                    (D) by striking ``in his discretion'' each time 
                that term appears and inserting ``at the discretion of 
                the Board'';
            (7) in section 1416(a) (15 U.S.C. 1715(a))--
                    (A) by striking ``of the Bureau of Consumer 
                Financial Protection'' the first time that term 
                appears;
                    (B) by striking ``his functions, duties, and 
                powers'' and inserting ``the functions, duties, and 
                powers of the Board'';
                    (C) by striking ``his administrative law judges'' 
                and inserting ``the administrative law judges of the 
                Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection''; and
                    (D) by striking ``himself'' and inserting ``the 
                Board'';
            (8)(A) in section 1418a(b)(4) (15 U.S.C. 1717a(b)(4)), by 
        striking ``The Secretary's determination or order'' and 
        inserting ``A determination or order of the Board''; and
            (B) in section 1418a(d) (15 U.S.C. 1717a(d)), by striking 
        ``the Secretary's determination or order'' and inserting ``a 
        determination or order of the Board'';
            (9) in section 1419 (15 U.S.C. 1718)--
                    (A) by striking ``him'' and inserting ``the 
                Board'';
                    (B) by striking ``his rules and regulations'' and 
                inserting ``the rules and regulations of the Board''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``his jurisdiction'' and inserting 
                ``the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
                Protection''; and
            (10) in section 1420 (15 U.S.C. 1719)--
                    (A) by inserting ``or any member of the Board'' 
                before ``in any proceeding''; and
                    (B) by striking ``him'' and inserting ``the Board 
                or any member of the Board''.
    (k) Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974.--Section 5 of 
the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 2604) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Director of'' and inserting ``Board of 
        Directors of''; and
            (2) by striking ``Director'' each place that term appears 
        and inserting ``Board''.
    (l) S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008.--The S.A.F.E. Mortgage 
Licensing Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 1503(10) (12 U.S.C. 5102(10))--
                    (A) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                ``Director'' and inserting ``Board''; and
                    (B) by striking ```Director' means the Director'' 
                and inserting ```Board' means the Board of Directors'';
            (2) by striking ``Director'' each place that term appears 
        and inserting ``Board'';
            (3) in section 1514(b)(5) (12 U.S.C. 5113(b)(5)) and 
        section 1514(c)(4)(C) (12 U.S.C. 5113(c)(4)(C)), by striking 
        ``Secretary's expenses'' and inserting ``expenses of the 
        Board'';
            (4) in the headings of section 1514(c)(1), (c)(4)(A), and 
        (c)(5), by striking ``director'' and inserting ``board''; and
            (5) in the heading of section 1514(d), by striking 
        ``Director'' and inserting ``Board''.
    (m) Title 44.--Section 3513(c) of title 44, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``Director of the Bureau'' and inserting ``Board of 
Directors of the Bureau''.
    (n) Deeming of Name.--Any reference in a law, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the Director of the 
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall be deemed a reference to 
the Board of Directors of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, 
unless otherwise specified in this Act.
    (o) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2016; or
            (2) the date on which not less than 3 persons have been 
        confirmed by the Senate to serve as members of the Board of 
        Directors of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
    Sec. 638. (a) Financing of Sales of Agricultural Commodities to 
Cuba.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law (other than section 
908 of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 
(22 U.S.C. 7207), as amended by subsection (c)), a person subject to 
the jurisdiction of the United States may provide payment or financing 
terms for sales of agricultural commodities to Cuba or an individual or 
entity in Cuba.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Agricultural commodity.--The term ``agricultural 
        commodity'' has the meaning given the term in section 102 of 
        the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602).
            (2) Financing.--The term ``financing'' includes any loan or 
        extension of credit.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 908 of the Trade Sanctions 
Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7207) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``and financing'';
            (2) by striking subsection (b);
            (3) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Prohibition'' and all that 
                follows through ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding'' 
                and inserting ``In General.--Notwithstanding''; and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as 
                subsections (b) and (c), respectively, and by moving 
                those subsections, as so redesignated, 2 ems to the 
                left; and
            (4) by striking ``paragraph (1)'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``subsection (a)''.
    Sec. 639.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used, with respect to a State where marijuana is legal for recreational 
or medicinal purposes, to prohibit or penalize a financial institution 
solely because the institution provides financial services to an entity 
that is a manufacturer, producer, or a person that participates in any 
business or organized activity that--
            (1) involves handling marijuana or marijuana products; and
            (2) engages in such activity pursuant to a law established 
        by a State or a unit of local government.
    Sec. 640. (a) The Office of Personnel Management shall provide to 
each affected individual as defined in subsection (b) complimentary 
identity protection coverage that--
            (1) is not less comprehensive than the complimentary 
        identify protection coverage that the Office provided to 
        affected individuals before the date of enactment of this Act;
            (2) is effective for a period of not less than 10 years; 
        and
            (3) includes not less than $5,000,000 in identity theft 
        insurance.
    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``affected individual'' 
means any individual whose personally identifiable information was 
compromised during--
            (1) the data breach of personnel records of current and 
        former Federal employees, at a network maintained by the 
        Department of the Interior, that was announced by the Office of 
        Personnel Management on June 4, 2015; or
            (2) the data breach of systems of the Office of Personnel 
        Management containing information related to the background 
        investigations of current, former, and prospective Federal 
        employees, and of other individuals.
    Sec. 641. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or any 
other Act may be used to implement any law, regulation, or policy that 
prohibits or otherwise restricts travel, or any transaction incident to 
travel, to or from Cuba by any citizen or legal resident of the United 
States.
    (b) Any law, regulation, or policy described in subsection (a) 
shall cease to have any force or effect on and after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Nothing in this section limits the authority of the President 
to restrict travel described in subsection (a), or any transaction 
incident to such travel, if such restriction is important to the 
national security of the United States or to protect human health or 
welfare.
    Sec. 642.  Section 1706(b) of the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992 (22 
U.S.C. 6005(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) as 
        paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively.

                               TITLE VII

                  GENERAL PROVISIONS--GOVERNMENT-WIDE

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 701.  No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 2016 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers and employees of such 
department, agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 702.  Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United States Code, for the purchase of 
any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, ambulances, law 
enforcement vehicles, protective vehicles, and undercover surveillance 
vehicles), is hereby fixed at $19,947 except station wagons for which 
the maximum shall be $19,997:  Provided, That these limits may be 
exceeded by not to exceed $7,250 for police-type vehicles:  Provided 
further, That the limits set forth in this section may not be exceeded 
by more than 5 percent for electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for 
demonstration under the provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle 
Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1976:  Provided 
further, That the limits set forth in this section may be exceeded by 
the incremental cost of clean alternative fuels vehicles acquired 
pursuant to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of comparable 
conventionally fueled vehicles:  Provided further, That the limits set 
forth in this section shall not apply to any vehicle that is a 
commercial item and which operates on alternative fuel, including but 
not limited to electric, plug-in hybrid electric, and hydrogen fuel 
cell vehicles.
    Sec. 703.  Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922-5924.
    Sec. 704.  Unless otherwise specified in law during the current 
fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or 
employee of the Government of the United States (including any agency 
the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government of the 
United States) whose post of duty is in the continental United States 
unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a 
person who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence and is seeking 
citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who 
is admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or is granted asylum under 
8 U.S.C. 1158 and has filed a declaration of intention to become a 
lawful permanent resident and then a citizen when eligible; or (4) is a 
person who owes allegiance to the United States:  Provided, That for 
purposes of this section, affidavits signed by any such person shall be 
considered prima facie evidence that the requirements of this section 
with respect to his or her status are being complied with:  Provided 
further, That for purposes of subsections (2) and (3) such affidavits 
shall be submitted prior to employment and updated thereafter as 
necessary:  Provided further, That any person making a false affidavit 
shall be guilty of a felony, and upon conviction, shall be fined no 
more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both:  
Provided further, That the above penal clause shall be in addition to, 
and not in substitution for, any other provisions of existing law:  
Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or employee 
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be recoverable in 
action by the Federal Government:  Provided further, That this section 
shall not apply to any person who is an officer or employee of the 
Government of the United States on the date of enactment of this Act, 
or to international broadcasters employed by the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors, or to temporary employment of translators, or to temporary 
employment in the field service (not to exceed 60 days) as a result of 
emergencies:  Provided further, That this section does not apply to the 
employment as Wildland firefighters for not more than 120 days of 
nonresident aliens employed by the Department of the Interior or the 
USDA Forest Service pursuant to an agreement with another country.
    Sec. 705.  Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 706.  In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13423 
        (January 24, 2007), including any such programs adopted prior 
        to the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    Sec. 707.  Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available:  Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 708.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards 
(except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, 
or similar groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which 
do not have a prior and specific statutory approval to receive 
financial support from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 709.  None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this or any other Act shall be used to implement, 
administer, or enforce any regulation which has been disapproved 
pursuant to a joint resolution duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 710.  During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Federal 
Government appointed by the President of the United States, holds 
office, no funds may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to 
furnish or redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, 
officer, or employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for 
any such office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or 
redecoration is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate. For the purposes of this 
section, the term ``office'' shall include the entire suite of offices 
assigned to the individual, as well as any other space used primarily 
by the individual or the use of which is directly controlled by the 
individual.
    Sec. 711.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of national 
security and emergency preparedness telecommunications initiatives 
which benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities, as 
provided by Executive Order No. 13618 (July 6, 2012).
    Sec. 712. (a) None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any department, agency, or other 
instrumentality of the Federal Government to pay the salaries or 
expenses of any individual appointed to a position of a confidential or 
policy-determining character that is excepted from the competitive 
service under section 3302 of title 5, United States Code, (pursuant to 
schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations) unless the head of the applicable department, agency, or 
other instrumentality employing such schedule C individual certifies to 
the Director of the Office of Personnel Management that the schedule C 
position occupied by the individual was not created solely or primarily 
in order to detail the individual to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed forces detailed to or from an element 
of the intelligence community (as that term is defined under section 
3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))).
    Sec. 713.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance or 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
        the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any 
        of the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 714. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 715.  No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television, 
or film presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending 
before the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home address 
to any labor organization except when the employee has authorized such 
disclosure or when such disclosure has been ordered by a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 717.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing, 
telephone or electronic mailing lists to any person or any organization 
outside of the Federal Government without the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.
    Sec. 718.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used directly or indirectly, including by private 
contractor, for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United 
States not heretofore authorized by Congress.
    Sec. 719. (a) In this section, the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency, as defined under 5 U.S.C. 
        105; and
            (2) includes a military department, as defined under 
        section 102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the Postal 
        Regulatory Commission.
    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), has an obligation to expend an honest 
effort and a reasonable proportion of such employee's time in the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 720.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act to any department or agency, which is a member of the Federal 
Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB), shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of FASAB administrative costs.
    Sec. 721.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of this 
Act, the head of each Executive department and agency is hereby 
authorized to transfer to or reimburse ``General Services 
Administration, Government-wide Policy'' with the approval of the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, funds made available 
for the current fiscal year by this or any other Act, including rebates 
from charge card and other contracts:  Provided, That these funds shall 
be administered by the Administrator of General Services to support 
Government-wide and other multi-agency financial, information 
technology, procurement, and other management innovations, initiatives, 
and activities, including improving coordination and reducing 
duplication, as approved by the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, in consultation with the appropriate interagency and multi-
agency groups designated by the Director (including the President's 
Management Council for overall management improvement initiatives, the 
Chief Financial Officers Council for financial management initiatives, 
the Chief Information Officers Council for information technology 
initiatives, the Chief Human Capital Officers Council for human capital 
initiatives, the Chief Acquisition Officers Council for procurement 
initiatives, and the Performance Improvement Council for performance 
improvement initiatives):  Provided further, That the total funds 
transferred or reimbursed shall not exceed $17,000,000 for Government-
Wide innovations, initiatives, and activities:  Provided further, That 
the funds transferred to or for reimbursement of ``General Services 
Administration, Government-wide Policy'' during fiscal year 2016 shall 
remain available for obligation through September 30, 2017:  Provided 
further, That such transfers or reimbursements may only be made after 
15 days following notification of the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate by the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget.
    Sec. 722.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a woman may 
breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or on 
Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized 
to be present at the location.
    Sec. 723.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of specific 
projects, workshops, studies, and similar efforts to carry out the 
purposes of the National Science and Technology Council (authorized by 
Executive Order No. 12881), which benefit multiple Federal departments, 
agencies, or entities:  Provided, That the Office of Management and 
Budget shall provide a report describing the budget of and resources 
connected with the National Science and Technology Council to the 
Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on Science and 
Technology, and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation 90 days after enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 724.  Any request for proposals, solicitation, grant 
application, form, notification, press release, or other publications 
involving the distribution of Federal funds shall comply with any 
relevant requirements in part 200 of title 2, Code of Federal 
Regulations:  Provided, That this section shall apply to direct 
payments, formula funds, and grants received by a State receiving 
Federal funds.
    Sec. 725. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of 
Individuals' Internet Use.--None of the funds made available in this or 
any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
            (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregation of data, 
        derived from any means, that includes any personally 
        identifiable information relating to an individual's access to 
        or use of any Federal Government Internet site of the agency; 
        or
            (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
        (including another government agency) to collect, review, or 
        obtain any aggregation of data, derived from any means, that 
        includes any personally identifiable information relating to an 
        individual's access to or use of any nongovernmental Internet 
        site.
    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection (a) 
shall not apply to--
            (1) any record of aggregate data that does not identify 
        particular persons;
            (2) any voluntary submission of personally identifiable 
        information;
            (3) any action taken for law enforcement, regulatory, or 
        supervisory purposes, in accordance with applicable law; or
            (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that is a 
        system security action taken by the operator of an Internet 
        site and is necessarily incident to providing the Internet site 
        services or to protecting the rights or property of the 
        provider of the Internet site.
    (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
        implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in law.
            (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of the 
        agency's supervised institutions, including assessing safety 
        and soundness, overall financial condition, management 
        practices and policies and compliance with applicable standards 
        as provided in law.
    Sec. 726. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision 
providing prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also 
includes a provision for contraceptive coverage.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Personal Care's HMO; and
                    (B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for the 
        plan objects to such coverage on the basis of religious 
        beliefs.
    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses to prescribe or 
otherwise provide for contraceptives because such activities would be 
contrary to the individual's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require coverage 
of abortion or abortion-related services.
    Sec. 727.  The United States is committed to ensuring the health of 
its Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic athletes, and supports the 
strict adherence to anti-doping in sport through testing, adjudication, 
education, and research as performed by nationally recognized oversight 
authorities.
    Sec. 728.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for official travel to Federal departments and agencies 
may be used by such departments and agencies, if consistent with Office 
of Management and Budget Circular A-126 regarding official travel for 
Government personnel, to participate in the fractional aircraft 
ownership pilot program.
    Sec. 729.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or made available under this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used to implement or enforce restrictions or 
limitations on the Coast Guard Congressional Fellowship Program, or to 
implement the proposed regulations of the Office of Personnel 
Management to add sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part 300 of title 
5 of the Code of Federal Regulations, published in the Federal 
Register, volume 68, number 174, on September 9, 2003 (relating to the 
detail of executive branch employees to the legislative branch).
    Sec. 730.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, except that the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain the temporary use 
of additional facilities by lease, contract, or other agreement for 
training which cannot be accommodated in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 731.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none of the 
funds provided in this or any other Act may be used by an executive 
branch agency to produce any prepackaged news story intended for 
broadcast or distribution in the United States, unless the story 
includes a clear notification within the text or audio of the 
prepackaged news story that the prepackaged news story was prepared or 
funded by that executive branch agency.
    Sec. 732.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 552a of title 5, United States Code 
(popularly known as the Privacy Act), and regulations implementing that 
section.
    Sec. 733. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be used for any 
Federal Government contract with any foreign incorporated entity which 
is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under section 835(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary 
of such an entity.
    (b) Waivers.--
            (1) In general.--Any Secretary shall waive subsection (a) 
        with respect to any Federal Government contract under the 
        authority of such Secretary if the Secretary determines that 
        the waiver is required in the interest of national security.
            (2) Report to congress.--Any Secretary issuing a waiver 
        under paragraph (1) shall report such issuance to Congress.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply to any Federal 
Government contract entered into before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, or to any task order issued pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 734.  During fiscal year 2016, for each employee who--
            (1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or 8414(b)(1)(B) of 
        title 5, United States Code; or
            (2) retires under any other provision of subchapter III of 
        chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title 5 and receives a payment 
        as an incentive to separate, the separating agency shall remit 
        to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount 
        equal to the Office of Personnel Management's average unit cost 
        of processing a retirement claim for the preceding fiscal year. 
        Such amounts shall be available until expended to the Office of 
        Personnel Management and shall be deemed to be an 
        administrative expense under section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, 
        United States Code.
    Sec. 735. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to recommend or require any entity submitting an offer 
for a Federal contract to disclose any of the following information as 
a condition of submitting the offer:
            (1) Any payment consisting of a contribution, expenditure, 
        independent expenditure, or disbursement for an electioneering 
        communication that is made by the entity, its officers or 
        directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to a 
        candidate for election for Federal office or to a political 
        committee, or that is otherwise made with respect to any 
        election for Federal office.
            (2) Any disbursement of funds (other than a payment 
        described in paragraph (1)) made by the entity, its officers or 
        directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to any 
        person with the intent or the reasonable expectation that the 
        person will use the funds to make a payment described in 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) In this section, each of the terms ``contribution'', 
``expenditure'', ``independent expenditure'', ``electioneering 
communication'', ``candidate'', ``election'', and ``Federal office'' 
has the meaning given such term in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (2 U.S.C. 431 et seq.).
    Sec. 736.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to pay for the painting of a portrait of an officer or 
employee of the Federal government, including the President, the Vice 
President, a member of Congress (including a Delegate or a Resident 
Commissioner to Congress), the head of an executive branch agency (as 
defined in section 133 of title 41, United States Code), or the head of 
an office of the legislative branch.
    Sec. 737. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2016, by this or any other Act, may 
be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described in section 
5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
            (A) during the period from the date of expiration of the 
        limitation imposed by the comparable section for the previous 
        fiscal years until the normal effective date of the applicable 
        wage survey adjustment that is to take effect in fiscal year 
        2016, in an amount that exceeds the rate payable for the 
        applicable grade and step of the applicable wage schedule in 
        accordance with such section; and
            (B) during the period consisting of the remainder of fiscal 
        year 2016, in an amount that exceeds, as a result of a wage 
        survey adjustment, the rate payable under subparagraph (A) by 
        more than the sum of--
                    (i) the percentage adjustment taking effect in 
                fiscal year 2016 under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code, in the rates of pay under the General 
                Schedule; and
                    (ii) the difference between the overall average 
                percentage of the locality-based comparability payments 
                taking effect in fiscal year 2016 under section 5304 of 
                such title (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and 
                the overall average percentage of such payments which 
                was effective in the previous fiscal year under such 
                section.
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no prevailing rate 
employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2) of 
title 5, United States Code, and no employee covered by section 5348 of 
such title, may be paid during the periods for which paragraph (1) is 
in effect at a rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable to such employee.
    (3) For the purposes of this subsection, the rates payable to an 
employee who is covered by this subsection and who is paid from a 
schedule not in existence on September 30, 2015, shall be determined 
under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management.
    (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of premium 
pay for employees subject to this subsection may not be changed from 
the rates in effect on September 30, 2015, except to the extent 
determined by the Office of Personnel Management to be consistent with 
the purpose of this subsection.
    (5) This subsection shall apply with respect to pay for service 
performed after September 30, 2015.
    (6) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
(including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any requirement 
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or basic pay, the rate 
of salary or basic pay payable after the application of this subsection 
shall be treated as the rate of salary or basic pay.
    (7) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to permit or 
require the payment to any employee covered by this subsection at a 
rate in excess of the rate that would be payable were this subsection 
not in effect.
    (8) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for exceptions 
to the limitations imposed by this subsection if the Office determines 
that such exceptions are necessary to ensure the recruitment or 
retention of qualified employees.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the adjustment in rates of 
basic pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in fiscal year 
2016 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, United States Code, shall 
be--
            (1) not less than the percentage received by employees in 
        the same location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted 
        pursuant to the statutory pay systems under sections 5303 and 
        5304 of title 5, United States Code:  Provided, That prevailing 
        rate employees at locations where there are no employees whose 
        pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5, 
        United States Code, and prevailing rate employees described in 
        section 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
        considered to be located in the pay locality designated as 
        ``Rest of United States'' pursuant to section 5304 of title 5, 
        United States Code, for purposes of this subsection; and
            (2) effective as of the first day of the first applicable 
        pay period beginning after September 30, 2015.
    Sec. 738. (a) The Vice President may not receive a pay raise in 
calendar year 2016, notwithstanding the rate adjustment made under 
section 104 of title 3, United States Code, or any other provision of 
law.
    (b) An employee serving in an Executive Schedule position, or in a 
position for which the rate of pay is fixed by statute at an Executive 
Schedule rate, may not receive a pay rate increase in calendar year 
2016, notwithstanding schedule adjustments made under section 5318 of 
title 5, United States Code, or any other provision of law, except as 
provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i). This subsection applies only 
to employees who are holding a position under a political appointment.
    (c) A chief of mission or ambassador at large may not receive a pay 
rate increase in calendar year 2016, notwithstanding section 401 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465) or any other provision 
of law, except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i).
    (d) Notwithstanding sections 5382 and 5383 of title 5, United 
States Code, a pay rate increase may not be received in calendar year 
2016 (except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i)) by--
            (1) a noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive Service 
        paid a rate of basic pay at or above level IV of the Executive 
        Schedule; or
            (2) a limited term appointee or limited emergency appointee 
        in the Senior Executive Service serving under a political 
        appointment and paid a rate of basic pay at or above level IV 
        of the Executive Schedule.
    (e) Any employee paid a rate of basic pay (including any locality-
based payments under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, or 
similar authority) at or above level IV of the Executive Schedule who 
serves under a political appointment may not receive a pay rate 
increase in calendar year 2016, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i). This subsection 
does not apply to employees in the General Schedule pay system or the 
Foreign Service pay system, or to employees appointed under section 
3161 of title 5, United States Code, or to employees in another pay 
system whose position would be classified at GS-15 or below if chapter 
51 of title 5, United States Code, applied to them.
    (f) Nothing in subsections (b) through (e) shall prevent employees 
who do not serve under a political appointment from receiving pay 
increases as otherwise provided under applicable law.
    (g) A career appointee in the Senior Executive Service who receives 
a Presidential appointment and who makes an election to retain Senior 
Executive Service basic pay entitlements under section 3392 of title 5, 
United States Code, is not subject to this section.
    (h) A member of the Senior Foreign Service who receives a 
Presidential appointment to any position in the executive branch and 
who makes an election to retain Senior Foreign Service pay entitlements 
under section 302(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-
465) is not subject to this section.
    (i) Notwithstanding subsections (b) through (e), an employee in a 
covered position may receive a pay rate increase upon an authorized 
movement to a different covered position with higher-level duties and a 
pre-established higher level or range of pay, except that any such 
increase must be based on the rates of pay and applicable pay 
limitations in effect on December 31, 2013.
    (j) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for an individual 
who is newly appointed to a covered position during the period of time 
subject to this section, the initial pay rate shall be based on the 
rates of pay and applicable pay limitations in effect on December 31, 
2013.
    (k) If an employee affected by subsections (b) through (e) is 
subject to a biweekly pay period that begins in calendar year 2016 but 
ends in calendar year 2017, the bar on the employee's receipt of pay 
rate increases shall apply through the end of that pay period.
    Sec. 739. (a) The head of any Executive branch department, agency, 
board, commission, or office funded by this or any other appropriations 
Act shall submit annual reports to the Inspector General or senior 
ethics official for any entity without an Inspector General, regarding 
the costs and contracting procedures related to each conference held by 
any such department, agency, board, commission, or office during fiscal 
year 2016 for which the cost to the United States Government was more 
than $100,000.
    (b) Each report submitted shall include, for each conference 
described in subsection (a) held during the applicable period--
            (1) a description of its purpose;
            (2) the number of participants attending;
            (3) a detailed statement of the costs to the United States 
        Government, including--
                    (A) the cost of any food or beverages;
                    (B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
                    (C) the cost of employee or contractor travel to 
                and from the conference; and
                    (D) a discussion of the methodology used to 
                determine which costs relate to the conference; and
            (4) a description of the contracting procedures used 
        including--
                    (A) whether contracts were awarded on a competitive 
                basis; and
                    (B) a discussion of any cost comparison conducted 
                by the departmental component or office in evaluating 
                potential contractors for the conference.
    (c) Within 15 days of the date of a conference held by any 
Executive branch department, agency, board, commission, or office 
funded by this or any other appropriations Act during fiscal year 2016 
for which the cost to the United States Government was more than 
$20,000, the head of any such department, agency, board, commission, or 
office shall notify the Inspector General or senior ethics official for 
any entity without an Inspector General, of the date, location, and 
number of employees attending such conference.
    (d) A grant or contract funded by amounts appropriated by this or 
any other appropriations Act may not be used for the purpose of 
defraying the costs of a conference described in subsection (c) that is 
not directly and programmatically related to the purpose for which the 
grant or contract was awarded, such as a conference held in connection 
with planning, training, assessment, review, or other routine purposes 
related to a project funded by the grant or contract.
    (e) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used for travel and conference activities 
that are not in compliance with Office of Management and Budget 
Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012.
    Sec. 740.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used to increase, eliminate, or reduce 
funding for a program, project, or activity as proposed in the 
President's budget request for a fiscal year until such proposed change 
is subsequently enacted in an appropriation Act, or unless such change 
is made pursuant to the reprogramming or transfer provisions of this or 
any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 741.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to implement, administer, enforce, or apply the rule 
entitled ``Competitive Area'' published by the Office of Personnel 
Management in the Federal Register on April 15, 2008 (73 Fed. Reg. 
20180 et seq.).
    Sec. 742.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used to begin or announce a 
study or public-private competition regarding the conversion to 
contractor performance of any function performed by Federal employees 
pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76 or any other 
administrative regulation, directive, or policy.
    Sec. 743. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be available for a contract, 
grant, or cooperative agreement with an entity that requires employees 
or contractors of such entity seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse 
to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting 
or otherwise restricting such employees or contractors from lawfully 
reporting such waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or 
law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency 
authorized to receive such information.
    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not contravene 
requirements applicable to Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or any other 
form issued by a Federal department or agency governing the 
nondisclosure of classified information.
    Sec. 744.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, 
or cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or 
loan guarantee to, any corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax 
liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and 
administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is 
not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the 
authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, where the 
awarding agency is aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless a Federal 
agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and 
has made a determination that this further action is not necessary to 
protect the interests of the Government.
    Sec. 745.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, 
or cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or 
loan guarantee to, any corporation that was convicted of a felony 
criminal violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 
months, where the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless a 
Federal agency has considered suspension or debarment of the 
corporation and has made a determination that this further action is 
not necessary to protect the interests of the Government.
    Sec. 746. (a) No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be 
used to implement or enforce the agreements in Standard Forms 312 and 
4414 of the Government or any other nondisclosure policy, form, or 
agreement if such policy, form, or agreement does not contain the 
following provisions: ``These provisions are consistent with and do not 
supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the employee obligations, 
rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order 
relating to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, 
(3) the reporting to an Inspector General of a violation of any law, 
rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse 
of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or 
safety, or (4) any other whistleblower protection. The definitions, 
requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and liabilities created 
by controlling Executive orders and statutory provisions are 
incorporated into this agreement and are controlling.'':  Provided, 
That notwithstanding the preceding provision of this section, a 
nondisclosure policy form or agreement that is to be executed by a 
person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or intelligence-
related activity, other than an employee or officer of the United 
States Government, may contain provisions appropriate to the particular 
activity for which such document is to be used. Such form or agreement 
shall, at a minimum, require that the person will not disclose any 
classified information received in the course of such activity unless 
specifically authorized to do so by the United States Government. Such 
nondisclosure forms shall also make it clear that they do not bar 
disclosures to Congress, or to an authorized official of an executive 
agency or the Department of Justice, that are essential to reporting a 
substantial violation of law.
    (b) A nondisclosure agreement may continue to be implemented and 
enforced notwithstanding subsection (a) if it complies with the 
requirements for such agreement that were in effect when the agreement 
was entered into.
    (c) No funds appropriated in this or any other Act may be used to 
implement or enforce any agreement entered into during fiscal year 2014 
which does not contain substantially similar language to that required 
in subsection (a).
    Sec. 747.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to implement, administer, carry out, modify, revise, or 
enforce Executive Order 13690 (entitled ``Establishing a Federal Flood 
Risk Management Standard and a Process for Further Soliciting and 
Considering Stakeholder Input'').
    Sec. 748.  If, for fiscal year 2016, new budget authority provided 
in appropriations Acts exceeds the discretionary spending limit for any 
category set forth in section 251(c) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 due to estimating differences 
with the Congressional Budget Office, an adjustment to the 
discretionary spending limit in such category for fiscal year 2016 
shall be made by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in 
the amount of the excess but the total of all such adjustments shall 
not exceed 0.2 percent of the sum of the adjusted discretionary 
spending limits for all categories for that fiscal year.
    Sec. 749.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in any title other than title IV or VIII shall 
not apply to such title IV or VIII.

                               TITLE VIII

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 801.  There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of legal settlements or judgments that have been 
entered against the District of Columbia government.
    Sec. 802.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
used for publicity or propaganda purposes or implementation of any 
policy including boycott designed to support or defeat legislation 
pending before Congress or any State legislature.
    Sec. 803. (a) None of the Federal funds provided under this Act to 
the agencies funded by this Act, both Federal and District government 
agencies, that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2016, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditures 
for an agency through a reprogramming of funds which--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or responsibility 
        center;
            (3) establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, 
        limited or increased under this Act;
            (4) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        program, project, or responsibility center for which funds have 
        been denied or restricted;
            (5) re-establishes any program or project previously 
        deferred through reprogramming;
            (6) augments any existing program, project, or 
        responsibility center through a reprogramming of funds in 
        excess of $3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) increases by 20 percent or more personnel assigned to a 
        specific program, project or responsibility center,
unless prior approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
    (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to approve 
and execute reprogramming and transfer requests of local funds under 
this title through November 7, 2016.
    Sec. 804.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be 
used by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or 
other costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or 
United States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of 
Columbia Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. 
Law 3-171; D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-123).
    Sec. 805.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, none of 
the funds made available by this Act or by any other Act may be used to 
provide any officer or employee of the District of Columbia with an 
official vehicle unless the officer or employee uses the vehicle only 
in the performance of the officer's or employee's official duties. For 
purposes of this section, the term ``official duties'' does not include 
travel between the officer's or employee's residence and workplace, 
except in the case of--
            (1) an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police 
        Department who resides in the District of Columbia or is 
        otherwise designated by the Chief of the Department;
            (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an officer or 
        employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency Medical 
        Services Department who resides in the District of Columbia and 
        is on call 24 hours a day;
            (3) at the discretion of the Director of the Department of 
        Corrections, an officer or employee of the District of Columbia 
        Department of Corrections who resides in the District of 
        Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
            (4) at the discretion of the Chief Medical Examiner, an 
        officer or employee of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner 
        who resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 24 hours 
        a day;
            (5) at the discretion of the Director of the Homeland 
        Security and Emergency Management Agency, an officer or 
        employee of the Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
        Agency who resides in the District of Columbia and is on call 
        24 hours a day;
            (6) the Mayor of the District of Columbia; and
            (7) the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
        Columbia.
    Sec. 806. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may 
be used by the District of Columbia Attorney General or any other 
officer or entity of the District government to provide assistance for 
any petition drive or civil action which seeks to require Congress to 
provide for voting representation in Congress for the District of 
Columbia.
    (b) Nothing in this section bars the District of Columbia Attorney 
General from reviewing or commenting on briefs in private lawsuits, or 
from consulting with officials of the District government regarding 
such lawsuits.
    Sec. 807.  None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may be 
used to distribute any needle or syringe for the purpose of preventing 
the spread of blood borne pathogens in any location that has been 
determined by the local public health or local law enforcement 
authorities to be inappropriate for such distribution.
    Sec. 808.  Nothing in this Act may be construed to prevent the 
Council or Mayor of the District of Columbia from addressing the issue 
of the provision of contraceptive coverage by health insurance plans, 
but it is the intent of Congress that any legislation enacted on such 
issue should include a ``conscience clause'' which provides exceptions 
for religious beliefs and moral convictions.
    Sec. 809.  None of the Federal funds appropriated under this Act 
shall be expended for any abortion except where the life of the mother 
would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where the 
pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 810. (a) No later than 30 calendar days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the 
Mayor, and the Council of the District of Columbia, a revised 
appropriated funds operating budget in the format of the budget that 
the District of Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 
of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-
204.42), for all agencies of the District of Columbia government for 
fiscal year 2016 that is in the total amount of the approved 
appropriation and that realigns all budgeted data for personal services 
and other-than-personal services, respectively, with anticipated actual 
expenditures.
    (b) This section shall apply only to an agency for which the Chief 
Financial Officer for the District of Columbia certifies that a 
reallocation is required to address unanticipated changes in program 
requirements.
    Sec. 811.  No later than 30 calendar days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the 
Mayor, and the Council for the District of Columbia, a revised 
appropriated funds operating budget for the District of Columbia Public 
Schools that aligns schools budgets to actual enrollment. The revised 
appropriated funds budget shall be in the format of the budget that the 
District of Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-
204.42).
    Sec. 812. (a) Amounts appropriated in this Act as operating funds 
may be transferred to the District of Columbia's enterprise and capital 
funds and such amounts, once transferred, shall retain appropriation 
authority consistent with the provisions of this Act.
    (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to reprogram 
or transfer for operating expenses any local funds transferred or 
reprogrammed in this or the four prior fiscal years from operating 
funds to capital funds, and such amounts, once transferred or 
reprogrammed, shall retain appropriation authority consistent with the 
provisions of this Act.
    (c) The District of Columbia government may not transfer or 
reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, 
or other obligations issued for capital projects.
    Sec. 813.  None of the Federal funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may 
any be transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so 
provided herein.
    Sec. 814.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law or 
under this Act, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances 
remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2016 from appropriations 
of Federal funds made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal 
year 2016 in this Act, shall remain available through September 30, 
2017, for each such account for the purposes authorized:  Provided, 
That a request shall be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate for approval prior to 
the expenditure of such funds:  Provided further, That these requests 
shall be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines outlined in 
section 803 of this Act.
    Sec. 815. (a) During fiscal year 2017, during a period in which 
neither a District of Columbia continuing resolution or a regular 
District of Columbia appropriation bill is in effect, local funds are 
appropriated in the amount provided for any project or activity for 
which local funds are provided in the Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Request 
Act of 2016 as submitted to Congress (subject to any modifications 
enacted by the District of Columbia as of the beginning of the period 
during which this subsection is in effect) at the rate set forth by 
such Act.
    (b) Appropriations made by subsection (a) shall cease to be 
available--
            (1) during any period in which a District of Columbia 
        continuing resolution for fiscal year 2017 is in effect; or
            (2) upon the enactment into law of the regular District of 
        Columbia appropriation bill for fiscal year 2017.
    (c) An appropriation made by subsection (a) is provided under the 
authority and conditions as provided under this Act and shall be 
available to the extent and in the manner that would be provided by 
this Act.
    (d) An appropriation made by subsection (a) shall cover all 
obligations or expenditures incurred for such project or activity 
during the portion of fiscal year 2017 for which this section applies 
to such project or activity.
    (e) This section shall not apply to a project or activity during 
any period of fiscal year 2017 if any other provision of law (other 
than an authorization of appropriations)--
            (1) makes an appropriation, makes funds available, or 
        grants authority for such project or activity to continue for 
        such period; or
            (2) specifically provides that no appropriation shall be 
        made, no funds shall be made available, or no authority shall 
        be granted for such project or activity to continue for such 
        period.
    (f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect 
obligations of the government of the District of Columbia mandated by 
other law.
    Sec. 816. (a) This section may be cited as the ``D.C. Opportunity 
Scholarship Program School Certification Requirements Act''.
    (b) Section 3007(a) of the Scholarships for Opportunity and Results 
Act (Public Law 112-10; 125 Stat. 203) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G)(i) is provisionally or fully accredited by a 
                national or regional accrediting agency that is 
                recognized in the District of Columbia School Reform 
                Act of 1995 (sec. 38-1802.02(16)(A)-(G), D.C. Official 
                Code) or any other accrediting body deemed appropriate 
                by the Office of the State Superintendent for Schools 
                for the purposes of accrediting an elementary or 
                secondary school; or
                            ``(ii) in the case of a school that is a 
                        participating school as of the day before the 
                        date of enactment of the D.C. Opportunity 
                        Scholarship Program School Certification 
                        Requirements Act and, as of such day, does not 
                        meet the requirements of clause (i)--
                                    ``(I) by not later than 1 year 
                                after such date of enactment, is 
                                pursuing accreditation by a national or 
                                regional accrediting agency recognized 
                                in the District of Columbia School 
                                Reform Act of 1995 (sec. 38-
                                1802.02(16)(A)-(G), D.C. Official Code) 
                                or any other accrediting body deemed 
                                appropriate by the Office of the State 
                                Superintendent for Schools for the 
                                purposes of accrediting an elementary 
                                or secondary school; and
                                    ``(II) by not later than 5 years 
                                after such date of enactment, is 
                                provisionally or fully accredited by 
                                such accrediting agency, except that an 
                                eligible entity may grant not more than 
                                one 1-year extension to meet this 
                                requirement for each participating 
                                school that provides evidence to the 
                                eligible entity from such accrediting 
                                agency that the school's application 
                                for accreditation is in process and the 
                                school will be awarded accreditation 
                                before the end of the 1-year extension 
                                period;
                    ``(H) conducts criminal background checks on school 
                employees who have direct and unsupervised interaction 
                with students; and
                    ``(I) complies with all requests for data and 
                information regarding the reporting requirements 
                described in section 3010.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) New participating schools.--If a school is not a 
        participating school as of the date of enactment of the D.C. 
        Opportunity Scholarship Program School Certification 
        Requirements Act, the school shall not become a participating 
        school and none of the funds provided under this division for 
        opportunity scholarships may be used by an eligible student to 
        enroll in that school unless the school--
                    ``(A) is actively pursuing provisional or full 
                accreditation by a national or regional accrediting 
                agency that is recognized in the District of Columbia 
                School Reform Act of 1995 (sec. 38-1802.02(16)(A)-(G), 
                D.C. Official Code) or any other accrediting body 
                deemed appropriate by the Office of the State 
                Superintendent for Schools for the purposes of 
                accrediting an elementary or secondary school; and
                    ``(B) meets all of the other requirements for 
                participating schools under this Act.
            ``(6) Enrolling in another school.--An eligible entity 
        shall assist the parents of a participating eligible student in 
        identifying, applying to, and enrolling in an another 
        participating school for which opportunity scholarship funds 
        may be used, if--
                    ``(A) such student is enrolled in a participating 
                private school and may no longer use opportunity 
                scholarship funds for enrollment in that participating 
                private school because such school fails to meet a 
                requirement under paragraph 4, or any other requirement 
                of this Act; or
                    ``(B) a participating eligible student is enrolled 
                in a school that ceases to be a participating 
                school.''.
    (c) Report to Eligible Entities.--Section 3010 of the Scholarships 
for Opportunity and Results Act (Public Law 112-10; 125 Stat. 203) is 
further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Reports to Eligible Entities.--The eligible entity receiving 
funds under section 3004(a) shall ensure that each participating school 
under this division submits to the eligible entity beginning not later 
than 5 years after the date of the enactment of the D.C. Opportunity 
Scholarship Program School Certification Requirements Act, a 
certification that the school has been awarded provisional or full 
accreditation, or has been granted an extension by the eligible entity 
in accordance with section 3007(a)(4)(G).''.
    (d) Unless specifically provided otherwise, this section, and the 
amendments made by this section, shall take effect 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 817.  Subparagraph (G) of section 3(c)(2) of the District of 
Columbia College Access Act of 1999 (Public Law 106-98), as amended, is 
further amended:
            (1) by inserting after ``(G)'', ``(i) for individuals who 
        began an undergraduate course of study prior to school year 
        2015-2016,''; and
            (2) by inserting the following before the period at the 
        end: ``and (ii) for individuals who begin an undergraduate 
        course of study in or after school year 2016-2017, is from a 
        family with a taxable annual income of less than $450,000. 
        Beginning with school year 2017-2018, the Mayor shall adjust 
        the amounts in clauses (i) and (ii) for inflation, as measured 
        by the percentage increase, if any, from the preceding fiscal 
        year in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, 
        published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department 
        of Labor''.
    Sec. 818.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this title or in title IV shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of this title or of title IV.

              TITLE IX--FINANCIAL REGULATORY IMPROVEMENTS

SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Financial Regulatory Improvement 
Act of 2015''.

  Subtitle A--Regulatory Relief and Protection of Consumer Access to 
                                 Credit

SEC. 902. EXCEPTION TO ANNUAL WRITTEN PRIVACY NOTICE REQUIREMENT UNDER 
              THE GRAMM-LEACH-BLILEY ACT.

    Section 503 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6803) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Exception to Annual Written Notice Requirement.--
            ``(1) In general.--A financial institution described in 
        paragraph (2) shall not be required to provide an annual 
        written disclosure under this section until such time as the 
        financial institution fails to comply with subparagraph (A), 
        (B), or (C) of paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Covered institutions.--A financial institution 
        described in this paragraph is a financial institution that--
                    ``(A) provides nonpublic personal information only 
                in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b)(2) 
                or (e) of section 502 or regulations prescribed under 
                section 504(b);
                    ``(B) has not changed its policies and practices 
                with respect to disclosing nonpublic personal 
                information from the policies and practices that were 
                disclosed in the most recent disclosure sent to 
                consumers in accordance with this section; and
                    ``(C) otherwise provides customers access to such 
                most recent disclosure in electronic or other form 
                permitted by regulations prescribed under section 
                504.''.

SEC. 903. PRIVATELY INSURED CREDIT UNIONS AUTHORIZED TO BECOME MEMBERS 
              OF A FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK.

    (a) In General.--Section 4(a) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 
U.S.C. 1424(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Certain privately insured credit unions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to the requirements of 
                subparagraph (B), a credit union that lacks insurance 
                of its member accounts under Federal law shall be 
                treated as an insured depository institution for 
                purposes of this Act.
                    ``(B) Certification by appropriate state 
                supervisor.--For purposes of this paragraph, a credit 
                union that lacks insurance of its member accounts under 
                Federal law and that has applied for membership in a 
                Federal Home Loan Bank shall be treated as an insured 
                depository institution if the following has occurred:
                            ``(i) Determination by state supervisor of 
                        the credit union.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Subject to 
                                subclause (II), the appropriate 
                                supervisor of the State in which the 
                                credit union is chartered has 
                                determined that the credit union meets 
                                all the eligibility requirements under 
                                section 201(a) of the Federal Credit 
                                Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1781(a)) to apply 
                                for insurance of its member accounts as 
                                of the date of the application for 
                                membership.
                                    ``(II) Certification deemed 
                                valid.--In the case of any credit union 
                                to which subclause (I) applies, if the 
                                appropriate supervisor of the State in 
                                which such credit union is chartered 
                                fails to make the determination 
                                required pursuant to such subclause by 
                                the end of the 12-month period 
                                beginning on the date on which the 
                                application is submitted to the 
                                supervisor, the credit union shall be 
                                deemed to have met the requirements of 
                                subclause (I).
                            ``(ii) Determination by state supervisor of 
                        the private deposit insurer.--The licensing 
                        entity of the private deposit insurer that is 
                        insuring the member accounts of the credit 
                        union--
                                    ``(I) receives, on an annual basis, 
                                an independent actuarial opinion that 
                                the private insurer has set aside 
                                sufficient reserves for losses; and
                                    ``(II) obtains, as frequently as 
                                appropriate, but not less frequently 
                                than once every 36 months, a study by 
                                an independent actuary on the capital 
                                adequacy of the private insurer.
                            ``(iii) Submission of financial 
                        information.--The credit union or the 
                        appropriate supervisor of the State in which 
                        the credit union is chartered makes available, 
                        and continues to make available for such time 
                        as the credit union is a member of a Federal 
                        Home Loan Bank, to the Federal Housing Finance 
                        Agency or to the Federal Home Loan Bank all 
                        reports, records, and other information related 
                        to any examination or inquiry performed by the 
                        supervisor concerning the financial condition 
                        of the credit union, as soon as is practicable.
                    ``(C) Security interests of federal home loan bank 
                not avoidable.--Notwithstanding any provision of State 
                law authorizing a conservator or liquidating agent of a 
                credit union to repudiate contracts, no such provision 
                shall apply with respect to--
                            ``(i) any extension of credit from any 
                        Federal Home Loan Bank to any credit union that 
                        is a member of any such bank pursuant to this 
                        paragraph; or
                            ``(ii) any security interest in the assets 
                        of such a credit union securing any such 
                        extension of credit.
                    ``(D) Protection for certain federal home loan bank 
                advances.--Notwithstanding any State law to the 
                contrary, if a Bank makes an advance under section 10 
                to a State-chartered credit union that is not federally 
                insured--
                            ``(i) the interest of the Bank in any 
                        collateral securing the advance has the same 
                        priority and is afforded the same standing and 
                        rights that the security interest would have 
                        had if the advance had been made to a federally 
                        insured credit union; and
                            ``(ii) the Bank has the same right to 
                        access such collateral that the Bank would have 
                        had if the advance had been made to a federally 
                        insured credit union.''.
    (b) Copies of Audits of Private Insurers of Certain Depository 
Institutions Required to Be Provided to Supervisory Agencies.--Section 
43(a)(2)(A) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
1831t(a)(2)(A)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iii) in the case of depository 
                        institutions described in subsection (e)(2)(A), 
                        the member accounts of which are insured by the 
                        private deposit insurer, which are members of a 
                        Federal home loan bank, to the Federal Housing 
                        Finance Agency, not later than 7 days after the 
                        audit is completed.''.
    (c) GAO Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall conduct a study and submit to Congress a report on--
            (1) the adequacy of insurance reserves held by any private 
        deposit insurer that insures the member accounts of any entity 
        described in section 43(e)(2)(A) of the Federal Deposit 
        Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831t(e)(2)(A)); and
            (2) for any entity described in paragraph (1), the member 
        accounts of which are insured by a private deposit insurer, the 
        level of compliance with Federal regulations relating to the 
        disclosure of a lack of Federal deposit insurance.

SEC. 904. DESIGNATION OF RURAL AREA.

    (a) Application.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 
shall establish an application process under which a person who lives 
or does business in a State may, with respect to an area identified by 
the person in the State that has not been designated by the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection as a rural area for purposes of a Federal 
consumer financial law (as defined in section 1002 of the Consumer 
Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481)), apply for such area 
to be so designated.
    (b) Evaluation Criteria.--In evaluating an application submitted 
under subsection (a), the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall 
take into consideration the following factors:
            (1) Criteria used by the Director of the Bureau of the 
        Census for classifying geographical areas as rural or urban.
            (2) Criteria used by the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget to designate counties as metropolitan, 
        micropolitan, or neither.
            (3) Criteria used by the Secretary of Agriculture to 
        determine property eligibility for rural development programs.
            (4) The Department of Agriculture rural-urban commuting 
        area codes.
            (5) A written opinion provided by the State bank supervisor 
        (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
        (12 U.S.C. 1813).
            (6) Population density.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--If, at any time before the date on which 
an application is submitted under subsection (a), the area subject to 
review has been designated as nonrural by any Federal agency described 
in subsection (b) using any of the criteria described in that 
subsection, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall not be 
required to consider such designation in its evaluation.
    (d) Public Comment Period.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date on 
        which an application submitted under subsection (a) is 
        received, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall--
                    (A) publish the application on the website of the 
                Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection; and
                    (B) make the application available for public 
                comment for not fewer than 90 days.
            (2)  Limitation on additional applications.--Nothing in 
        this section shall be construed to require the Bureau of 
        Consumer Financial Protection, during the public comment period 
        described in paragraph (1) with respect to an application 
        submitted under subsection (a), to accept an additional 
        application with respect to the area that is the subject of the 
        initial application.
    (e) Decision on Designation.--Not later than 90 days after the end 
of the public comment period described in subsection (d)(1), the Bureau 
of Consumer Financial Protection shall--
            (1) grant or deny such application, in whole or in part; 
        and
            (2) publish such grant or denial in the Federal Register, 
        along with an explanation of the factors on which the Bureau of 
        Consumer Financial Protection relied in making such decision.
    (f) Subsequent Applications.--A decision by the Bureau under 
subsection (e) to deny an application for an area to be designated as a 
rural area shall not preclude the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
Protection from accepting a subsequent application submitted under 
subsection (a) for the area to be so designated if the subsequent 
application is submitted after the date on which the 90-day period 
beginning on the date on which the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
Protection denies the application under subsection (e) expires.
    (g) Operations in Rural Areas.--The Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 
1601 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 129C(b)(2)(E)(iv)(I) (15 U.S.C. 
        1639c(b)(2)(E)(iv)(I)), by striking ``predominantly''; and
            (2) in section 129D(c)(1) (15 U.S.C. 1639d(c)(1)), by 
        striking ``predominantly''.

SEC. 905. INDEPENDENT EXAMINATION REVIEW.

    (a) In General.--The Federal Financial Institutions Examination 
Council Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:

``SEC. 1012. OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT EXAMINATION REVIEW.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Council an Office 
of Independent Examination Review.
    ``(b) Head of Office.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--There is established the position of 
        the Director as the head of the Office of Independent 
        Examination Review, who shall be appointed by the Council for a 
        term of 5 years.
            ``(2) Removal.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The President may remove the 
                Director from office.
                    ``(B) Congressional notification.--Not later than 
                30 days after the date on which the Director is removed 
                from office under subparagraph (A), the President shall 
                submit to Congress a written notification describing 
                the reasons for the removal.
    ``(c) Staffing.--The Director may hire staff to support the 
activities of the Office of Independent Examination Review.
    ``(d) Duties.--The Director shall--
            ``(1) receive and, at the discretion of the Director, 
        investigate complaints from financial institutions, 
        representatives of financial institutions, or any other entity 
        acting on behalf of financial institutions, concerning 
        examinations, examination practices, or examination reports;
            ``(2) hold meetings, not less than once every 90 days and 
        in locations designed to encourage participation from all 
        regions of the United States, with financial institutions, 
        representatives of financial institutions, or any other entity 
        acting on behalf of financial institutions, to discuss 
        examination procedures, examination practices, or examination 
        policies;
            ``(3) review examination procedures of the Federal 
        financial institutions regulatory agencies to ensure that the 
        written examination policies of the agencies are being followed 
        in practice and adhere to the standards for consistency 
        established by the Council;
            ``(4) conduct a continuing and regular program of 
        examination quality assurance for all types of examinations 
        conducted by the Federal financial institutions regulatory 
        agencies; and
            ``(5) submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
        Urban Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives, and the Council an 
        annual report on the reviews carried out pursuant to paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), including recommendations for improvements in 
        examination procedures, practices, and policies.
    ``(e) Confidentiality.--The Director shall keep confidential--
            ``(1) all meetings, discussions, and information provided 
        by financial institutions; and
            ``(2) any confidential or privileged information provided 
        by a Federal financial institutions regulatory agency.
    ``(f) Funding; Budget.--
            ``(1) In general.--One-fifth of the costs and expenses of 
        the Office of Independent Examination Review, including the 
        salaries of its employees, shall be paid by each of the Federal 
        financial institutions regulatory agencies, which shall be 
        based on the budget submitted under paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Budget.--Not later than April 15 of each fiscal year, 
        the Director shall submit to the Council a projected budget for 
        the Office of Independent Examination Review for the following 
        fiscal year.''.
    (b) Definitions.--Section 1003 of the Federal Financial 
Institutions Examination Council Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3302) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) the term `Federal financial institutions regulatory 
        agencies' means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 
        the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the 
        Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit 
        Union Administration, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
        Protection;'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (3) in paragraph (3), by striking the semicolon and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) the term `Director' means the Director established 
        under section 1012.''.
    (c) Federal Banking Agency Ombudsman.--
            (1) In general.--Section 309 of the Riegle Community 
        Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 
        4806) is amended--
                    (A) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by 
                inserting ``, the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
                Protection,'' after ``Federal banking agency'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) 
                        as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and 
                        adjusting the margins accordingly;
                            (ii) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), as so redesignated, by striking ``In 
                        establishing'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--In establishing'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (1)(B), as so 
                        redesignated, by striking ``the appellant from 
                        retaliation by agency examiners'' and inserting 
                        ``the insured depository institution or insured 
                        credit union from retaliation by an agency 
                        referred to in subsection (a)''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Retaliation.--For purposes of this subsection and 
        subsection (e), retaliation includes delaying consideration of, 
        or withholding approval of, any request, notice, or application 
        that otherwise would have been approved, but for the exercise 
        of the rights of the insured depository institution or insured 
        credit union under this section.''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e)(2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; 
                        and'' and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) ensure that appropriate safeguards exist for 
                protecting the insured depository institution or 
                insured credit union from retaliation by any 
                appropriate Federal banking agency for exercising the 
                rights of the insured depository institution or insured 
                credit union under this subsection.''.
            (2) Effect.--Nothing in this subsection shall be construed 
        to affect the authority of an appropriate Federal banking 
        agency (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit 
        Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)) or the National Credit Union 
        Administration Board to take enforcement or other supervisory 
        action.
    (d) Federal Credit Union Act.--Section 205(j) of the Federal Credit 
Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1785(j)) is amended by inserting ``the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection,'' before ``the Administration'' each 
place that term appears.
    (e) Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Act.--
Section 1005 of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council 
Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3304) is amended by striking ``One-fifth'' and 
inserting ``One-fourth''.

SEC. 906. CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION SHARED BETWEEN STATE AND 
              FEDERAL FINANCIAL SERVICES REGULATORS.

    Section 1512(a) of the S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (12 
U.S.C. 5111(a)) is amended by inserting ``or financial services'' 
before ``industry''.

SEC. 907. SAFE HARBOR FOR CERTAIN LOANS HELD IN PORTFOLIO.

    (a) In General.--Section 129C of the Truth in Lending Act (15 
U.S.C. 1639c) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Safe Harbor for Certain Loans Held in Portfolio.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this section--
                    ``(A) the term `appropriate Federal banking agency' 
                has the meaning given that term in section 3 of the 
                Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813);
                    ``(B) the term `depository institution' has the 
                meaning given that term in section 19(b)(1) of the 
                Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)); and
                    ``(C) the term `financial institution regulator' 
                means an appropriate Federal banking agency, the 
                Bureau, and the National Credit Union Administration.
            ``(2) Safe harbor for creditors.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A creditor shall not be subject 
                to suit for failure to comply with subsection (a), 
                (c)(1), or (f)(2) of this section or section 129H with 
                respect to a residential mortgage loan, and the 
                financial institution regulators shall treat such loan 
                as a qualified mortgage, if--
                            ``(i)(I) the creditor has, since the 
                        origination of the loan, held the loan on the 
                        balance sheet of the creditor; or
                            ``(II) any person acquiring the loan has 
                        continued to hold the loan on the balance sheet 
                        of the person;
                    ``(ii) the loan has not been acquired through a 
                securitization;
                    ``(iii) all prepayment penalties with respect to 
                the loan comply with the limitations described in 
                subsection (c)(3);
                    ``(iv) the loan does not have--
                            ``(I) negative amortization;
                            ``(II) interest-only features; or
                            ``(III) a loan term of more than 30 years; 
                        and
                    ``(v) the creditor has documented the consumer's--
                            ``(I) income;
                            ``(II) employment;
                            ``(III) assets; and
                            ``(IV) credit history.
                    ``(B) Exception for certain transfers.--In the case 
                of a depository institution that transfers a loan 
                originated by that institution to another depository 
                institution by reason of the bankruptcy or failure of 
                the originating depository institution or the purchase 
                of the originating depository institution, the 
                depository institution acquiring the loan shall be 
                deemed to have complied with the requirement under 
                subparagraph (A)(i).''.
    (b) Reviewing the Portfolio of Systemically Important Banks.--
Section 18(o) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(o)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Systemically important bank review.--The appropriate 
        Federal banking agency shall periodically review the mortgage 
        portfolio or targeted segments of the portfolios of a bank 
        subject to a determination under section 113A(a) of the 
        Financial Stability Act of 2010 if--
                    ``(A) there is elevated risk;
                    ``(B) there is an increase in delinquency and loss 
                rates;
                    ``(C) there are new lines of business;
                    ``(D) there are new acquisition channels;
                    ``(E) there is rapid growth; or
                    ``(F) an internal audit is inadequate.''.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in the amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall be construed to prevent a balloon loan from 
qualifying for the safe harbor provided under section 129C(j) of the 
Truth in Lending Act, as added by subsection (a), if the balloon loan 
otherwise meets all of the requirements under subsection (j) of that 
section, regardless of whether the balloon loan meets the requirements 
described under clauses (i) through (iv) of section 129C(b)(2)(E) of 
that Act (12 U.S.C. 129C(b)(2)(E)).

SEC. 908. PROTECTING CONSUMER ACCESS TO MORTGAGE CREDIT.

    (a) Definition of High-cost Mortgage.--Section 103 of the Truth in 
Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (aa) and (bb) as 
        subsections (bb) and (aa), respectively, and moving subsection 
        (bb), as so redesignated, after subsection (aa), as so 
        redesignated; and
            (2) in subsection (aa)(4), as so redesignated--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``paragraph (1)(B)'' and inserting ``paragraph 
                (1)(A) and section 129C'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                        inserting ``and insurance'' after ``taxes''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in clause (iii), by striking ``; and'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (D)--
                            (i) by striking ``accident,''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``or any payments'' and 
                        inserting ``and any payments''.
    (b) Rulemaking.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this title, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall 
promulgate regulations to carry out the amendments made by subsection 
(a)(2).
    (c) Study and Report on Consumer Access to Mortgage Credit.--
            (1) Study required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall conduct a study to determine the effects that the 
        Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 
        U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) has had on the availability and 
        affordability of credit for consumers, small businesses, first-
        time homebuyers, and mortgage lending, including the effects--
                    (A) on the mortgage market for mortgages that are 
                not qualified mortgages;
                    (B) on the ability of prospective homebuyers to 
                obtain financing, including first-time homebuyers;
                    (C) on the ability of homeowners facing resets or 
                adjustments to refinance, including whether homeowners 
                have fewer refinancing options due to the 
                unavailability of certain loan products that were 
                available before the date of enactment of the Dodd-
                Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
                (12 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.);
                    (D) on the ability of minorities to access 
                affordable credit compared with other prospective 
                borrowers;
                    (E) on home sales and construction;
                    (F) of extending any right of rescission on 
                adjustable rate loans and the impact of the right of 
                rescission on litigation;
                    (G) of any State foreclosure law and the ability of 
                investors to transfer a property after foreclosure;
                    (H) of expanding the existing provisions of the 
                Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 (15 
                U.S.C. 1601 note and 1602 note);
                    (I) of prohibiting prepayment penalties on high-
                cost mortgages;
                    (J) of establishing counseling services under the 
                Department of Housing and Urban Development and offered 
                through the Office of Housing Counseling; and
                    (K) on the differences in title insurance premiums 
                and ancillary charges paid by low- and moderate-income 
                consumers to affiliates of mortgage lenders to purchase 
                title insurance versus title insurance premiums and 
                ancillary charges paid by low- and moderate-income 
                consumers to unaffiliated title agencies or attorneys 
                to purchase title insurance in those markets in which 
                both affiliated and unaffiliated mortgage lenders 
                compete.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this title, the Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
        Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives a report that 
        includes--
                    (A) the findings and conclusions of the Comptroller 
                General with respect to the study conducted under 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (B) any recommendations for legislative or 
                regulatory actions that--
                            (i) would enhance the access of a consumer 
                        to mortgage credit;
                            (ii) is consistent with consumer 
                        protections and safe and sound banking 
                        operations; and
                            (iii) would address any negative effects on 
                        mortgage credit and mortgage availability 
                        identified in the study.

SEC. 909. PROTECTING ACCESS TO MANUFACTURED HOMES.

    (a) Mortgage Originator Definition.--Section 103 of the Truth in 
Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating the second subsection designated as 
        subsection (cc) and subsection (dd) as subsections (dd) and 
        (ee), respectively; and
            (2) in subsection (dd)(2)(C), as so redesignated, by 
        striking ``an employee of a retailer of manufactured homes who 
        is not described in clause (i) or (iii) of subparagraph (A) and 
        who does not advise a consumer on loan terms (including rates, 
        fees, and other costs)'' and inserting ``a retailer of 
        manufactured or modular homes or its employees, unless such 
        retailer or its employees receive compensation or gain for 
        engaging in activities described in subparagraph (A) that is in 
        excess of any compensation or gain received in a comparable 
        cash transaction''.
    (b) High-Cost Mortgage Definition.--Section 103(aa)(1)(A) of the 
Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1602(aa)(1)(A)), as redesignated by 
section 908(a)(1) of this title, is amended--
            (1) in clause (i)(I), by striking ``(8.5 percentage points, 
        if the dwelling is personal property and the transaction is for 
        less than $50,000)'' and inserting ``(10 percentage points, if 
        the dwelling is personal property or is a transaction that does 
        not include the purchase of real property on which a dwelling 
        is to be placed, and the transaction is for less than $75,000 
        (as such amount is adjusted by the Bureau to reflect the change 
        in the Consumer Price Index))''; and
            (2) in clause (ii)--
                    (A) in subclause (I), by striking ``; or'' and 
                inserting a semicolon; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                                    ``(III) in the case of a 
                                transaction for less than $75,000 (as 
                                such amount is adjusted by the Bureau 
                                to reflect the change in the Consumer 
                                Price Index) in which the dwelling is 
                                personal property (or is a consumer 
                                credit transaction that does not 
                                include the purchase of real property 
                                on which a dwelling is to be placed), 
                                the greater of 5 percent of the total 
                                transaction amount or $3,000 (as such 
                                amount is adjusted by the Bureau to 
                                reflect the change in the Consumer 
                                Price Index); or''.

SEC. 910. STREAMLINING BANK EXAMS.

    Section 10(d) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
1820(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking ``$500,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$1,000,000,000''; and
            (2) in paragraph (10), by striking ``$500,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$1,000,000,000''.

SEC. 911. ADJUSTMENTS FOR CHANGES IN GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT.

    (a) Commodity Exchange Act.--Section 2(h)(7)(C)(ii) of the 
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(h)(7)(C)(ii)) is amended by 
inserting ``(as such amount is adjusted annually by the Commission to 
reflect the percentage change for the previous calendar year in the 
gross domestic product of the United States, as calculated by the 
Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce)'' after 
``$10,000,000,000'' each place that term appears.
    (b) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Examination and Reporting 
Threshold.--
            (1) Increase in the examination threshold.--Section 1025(a) 
        of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 
        5515(a)) is amended by striking ``$10,000,000,000'' each place 
        that term appears and inserting ``$50,000,000,000 (as such 
        amount is adjusted annually by the Commission to reflect the 
        percentage change for the previous calendar year in the gross 
        domestic product of the United States, as calculated by the 
        Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce)''.
            (2) Increase in the reporting threshold.--Section 1026(a) 
        of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 
        5516(a)) is amended by striking ``$10,000,000,000'' each place 
        that term appears and inserting ``$50,000,000,000 (as such 
        amount is adjusted annually by the Commission to reflect the 
        percentage change for the previous calendar year in the gross 
        domestic product of the United States, as calculated by the 
        Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce)''.
            (3) Effective date.--This subsection and the amendments 
        made by this subsection shall take effect on the date that is 
        45 days after the date of enactment of this title.
    (c) Securities Exchange Act of 1934.--Section 3C(g)(3)(B) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)(3)(B)) is amended 
by inserting ``(as such amount is adjusted annually by the Commission 
to reflect the percentage change for the previous calendar year in the 
gross domestic product of the United States, as calculated by the 
Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce)'' after 
``$10,000,000,000'' each place that term appears.
    (d) Electronic Fund Transfer Act.--Section 920(a)(6)(A) of the 
Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693o-2(a)(6)(A)) is amended by 
inserting ``(as such amount is adjusted annually by the Board to 
reflect the percentage change for the previous calendar year in the 
gross domestic product of the United States, as calculated by the 
Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce)'' after 
``$10,000,000,000''.
    (e) Enhancing Financial Institution Safety and Soundness Act of 
2010.--Section 334(e) of the Enhancing Financial Institution Safety and 
Soundness Act of 2010 (title III of Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 1539) 
is amended by inserting ``(as such amount is adjusted annually by the 
Corporation to reflect the percentage change for the previous calendar 
year in the gross domestic product of the United States, as calculated 
by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce)'' 
after ``$10,000,000,000''.
    (f) Investor Protection and Securities Reform Act of 2010.--Section 
956(f) of the Investor Protection and Securities Reform Act of 2010 (15 
U.S.C. 5641(f)) is amended by inserting ``(as such amount is adjusted 
annually by the appropriate Federal regulator to reflect the percentage 
change for the previous calendar year in the gross domestic product of 
the United States, as calculated by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of 
the Department of Commerce)'' after ``$1,000,000,000''.

SEC. 912. STUDY ON THE PRIVACY RISKS OF GOVERNMENT PUBLICATION OF 
              PERSONAL FINANCIAL DATA.

    Section 304 of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 
2803) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (n), by inserting ``Such data shall not 
        be publicly disclosed by the Bureau or a depository institution 
        before the date on which the report is submitted under 
        subsection (o)(2).'' after the period at the end; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(o) Study and Report to Congress.--
            ``(1) Study required.--The Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall conduct a study to determine whether the 
        data published under this Act, in connection with other 
        publicly available data sources, could allow for or increase 
        the probability of--
                    ``(A) exposure of the identity of mortgage 
                applicants or mortgagors through reverse engineering;
                    ``(B) exposure of mortgage applicants or mortgagors 
                to identity theft or the loss of sensitive personal 
                financial information;
                    ``(C) the marketing or sale of unfair, deceptive, 
                or abusive financial products to mortgage applicants or 
                mortgagors based on the data published under this Act;
                    ``(D) personal financial loss or emotional distress 
                resulting from the exposure of mortgage applicants or 
                mortgagors to identify theft or the loss of sensitive 
                personal financial information; and
                    ``(E) the potential legal liability facing the 
                Bureau and market participants in the event the 
                published data leads or contributes to identity theft 
                or the capture of sensitive personal financial 
                information.
            ``(2) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this subsection, the Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall submit to the Committee on Banking, 
        Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Financial Services of the House of Representatives a report 
        that includes--
                    ``(A) the findings and conclusions of the 
                Comptroller General with respect to the study conducted 
                under paragraph (1); and
                    ``(B) any recommendations for legislative or 
                regulatory actions that--
                            ``(i) would enhance the privacy of a 
                        consumer when accessing mortgage credit; and
                            ``(ii) are consistent with consumer 
                        protections and safe and sound banking 
                        operations.''.

SEC. 913. ENSURING THE REPORTING OF APPRAISAL MISCONDUCT.

    Section 129E of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1639e) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) by striking ``Any mortgage lender'' and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Any mortgage lender''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Limitation on civil liability.--No person may be held 
        civilly liable under any provision of Federal, State, or other 
        law for a disclosure made in good faith pursuant to this 
        section.''; and
            (2) in subsection (k), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Applicability.--This subsection shall not apply to 
        subsection (e).''.

SEC. 914. MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANY DIVIDEND WAIVERS.

    Notwithstanding the rule of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System regarding Mutual Holding Company Dividend Waivers in 
section 239.63 of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations (or any 
successor thereto), grandfathered mutual holding companies and all 
other mutual holding companies shall be permitted to waive the receipt 
of dividends declared on the common stock of their bank or mid-size 
holding companies.

SEC. 915. SAFEGUARDING ACCESS TO HABITAT FOR HUMANITY HOMES.

    Section 129E(i)(2) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 
1639e(i)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses 
        (i) and (ii), respectively, and adjusting the margins 
        accordingly;
            (2) in the matter preceding clause (i), as so redesignated, 
        by striking ``For purposes of'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Rule of construction related to appraisal 
                donations.--In the case of an appraisal for which the 
                appraiser voluntarily does not receive a fee, the 
                appraiser is not, and shall not be construed to be, 
                with respect to the donated appraisal, a fee appraiser 
                for purposes of this section.''.

SEC. 916. CLARIFYING THE APPLICABILITY OF SECTION 13(H)(1) OF THE BANK 
              HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1956.

    (a) In General.--Section 13(h)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by redesignating clauses (i) and 
        (ii) as subclauses (I) and (II), respectively, and adjusting 
        the margins accordingly;
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) 
        as clauses (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv), respectively, and 
        adjusting the margins accordingly;
            (3) by striking ``institution that functions solely in a 
        trust or fiduciary capacity, if--''and inserting the following: 
        ``institution--
                    ``(A) that functions solely in a trust or fiduciary 
                capacity, if--''; and
            (4) by striking the period at the end and inserting the 
        following: ``; or
                    ``(B) with total consolidated assets of 
                $10,000,000,000 or less if such institution is not 
                controlled by a company with total consolidated assets 
                of more than $10,000,000,000 (as such amounts are 
                adjusted annually by the Board to reflect the 
                percentage change for the previous calendar year in the 
                gross domestic product of the United States, as 
                calculated by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the 
                Department of Commerce).''.
    (b) Reservation of Authority.--Section 13 of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1851) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(i) Reservation of Authority for Certain Insured Depository 
Institutions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (h)(1)(B), 
        the appropriate Federal banking agency for an insured 
        depository institution with total consolidated assets of 
        $10,000,000,000 or less may apply the prohibitions and 
        restrictions of this section to the activities of the insured 
        depository institution that, but for subsection (h)(1)(B), 
        would be subject to the prohibitions and restrictions of this 
        section if the appropriate Federal banking agency determines 
        that those activities--
                    ``(A) are inconsistent with traditional banking 
                activities; or
                    ``(B) due to their nature or volume, pose a risk to 
                the safety and soundness of the insured depository 
                institution.
            ``(2) Notice and response.--Each of the appropriate Federal 
        banking agencies shall establish a procedure for providing 
        notice to an insured depository institution of a determination 
        under paragraph (1) and an opportunity for response.''.

SEC. 917. STUDY OF MORTGAGE SERVICING ASSETS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Banking institution.--The term ``banking institution'' 
        means an insured depository institution, Federal credit union, 
        State credit union, bank holding company, or savings and loan 
        holding company.
            (2) Basel iii capital requirements.--The term ``Basel III 
        capital requirements'' means the Global Regulatory Framework 
        for More Resilient Banks and Banking Systems issued by the 
        Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on December 16, 2010, as 
        revised on June 1, 2011.
            (3) Federal banking agencies.--The term ``Federal banking 
        agencies'' means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
        System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
        Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the National Credit 
        Union Administration.
            (4) Mortgage servicing assets.--The term ``mortgage 
        servicing assets'' means those assets that result from 
        contracts to service loans secured by real estate, where such 
        loans are owned by third parties.
            (5) NCUA capital requirements.--The term ``NCUA capital 
        requirements'' means the proposed rule of the National Credit 
        Union Administration entitled ``Risk-Based Capital'' (80 Fed. 
        Reg. 4340 (January 27, 2015)).
            (6) Other definitions.--
                    (A) Banking definitions.--The terms ``bank holding 
                company'', ``insured depository institution'', and 
                ``savings and loan holding company'' have the meanings 
                given those terms in section 3 of the Federal Deposit 
                Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
                    (B) Credit union definitions.--The terms ``Federal 
                credit union'' and ``State credit union'' have the 
                meanings given those terms in section 101 of the 
                Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752).
    (b) Study of the Appropriate Capital for Mortgage Servicing 
Assets.--
            (1) In general.--The Federal banking agencies shall jointly 
        conduct a study of the appropriate capital requirements for 
        mortgage servicing assets for banking institutions.
            (2) Issues to be studied.--The study required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include, with a specific focus on banking 
        institutions--
                    (A) the risk to banking institutions of holding 
                mortgage servicing assets;
                    (B) the history of the market for mortgage 
                servicing assets, including in particular the market 
                for those assets in the period of the financial crisis;
                    (C) the ability of banking institutions to 
                establish a value for mortgage servicing assets of the 
                institution through periodic sales or other means;
                    (D) regulatory approaches to mortgage servicing 
                assets and capital requirements that may be used to 
                address concerns about the value of and ability to sell 
                mortgage servicing assets;
                    (E) the impact of imposing the Basel III capital 
                requirements and the NCUA capital requirements on 
                banking institutions on the ability of those 
                institutions--
                            (i) to compete in the mortgage servicing 
                        business, including the need for economies of 
                        scale to compete in that business; and
                            (ii) to provide service to consumers to 
                        whom the institutions have made mortgage loans;
                    (F) an analysis of what the mortgage servicing 
                marketplace would look like if the Basel III capital 
                requirements and the NCUA capital requirements on 
                mortgage servicing assets--
                            (i) were fully implemented; and
                            (ii) applied to both banking institutions 
                        and nondepository residential mortgage loan 
                        servicers;
                    (G) the significance of problems with mortgage 
                servicing assets, if any, in banking institution 
                failures and problem banking institutions, including 
                specifically identifying failed banking institutions 
                where mortgage servicing assets contributed to the 
                failure; and
                    (H) an analysis of the relevance of the Basel III 
                capital requirements and the NCUA capital requirements 
                on mortgage servicing assets to the banking systems of 
                other significantly developed countries.
            (3) Report to congress.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of enactment of this title, the Federal banking agencies 
        shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services 
        of the House of Representatives a report containing--
                    (A) the results of the study required under 
                paragraph (1);
                    (B) any analysis on the specific issue of mortgage 
                servicing assets undertaken by the Federal banking 
                agencies before finalizing regulations implementing the 
                Basel III capital requirements and the NCUA capital 
                requirements; and
                    (C) any recommendations for legislative or 
                regulatory actions that would address concerns about 
                the value of and ability to sell and the ability of 
                banking institutions to hold mortgage servicing assets.

SEC. 918. NO WAIT FOR LOWER MORTGAGE RATES.

    (a) In General.--Section 129(b) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 
U.S.C. 1639(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) No wait for lower rate.--If a creditor extends to a 
        consumer a second offer of credit with a lower annual 
        percentage rate, the transaction may be consummated without 
        regard to the period specified in paragraph (1).''.
    (b) Safe Harbor for Good Faith Compliance With TILA-RESPA 
Integrated Disclosure Rule.--Section 1032(f) of the Consumer Financial 
Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5532(f)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Safe harbor for good faith compliance.--
                    ``(A) Safe harbor.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, during the period described in 
                subparagraph (B), an entity that provides the 
                disclosures required under the Truth in Lending Act (15 
                U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) and sections 4 and 5 of the Real 
                Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 
                2603 and 2604), as in effect on July 31, 2015, shall 
                not be subject to any civil, criminal, or 
                administrative action or penalty for failure to fully 
                comply with any requirement under this subsection.
                    ``(B) Applicable period.--Subparagraph (A) shall 
                apply to an entity during the period beginning on the 
                date of enactment of this paragraph and ending on the 
                date that is 30 days after the date on which a 
                certification by the Director that the model 
                disclosures required under paragraph (1) are accurate 
                and in compliance with all State laws is published in 
                the Federal Register.''.

SEC. 919. ELIMINATING BARRIERS TO JOBS FOR LOAN ORIGINATORS.

    (a) In General.--The S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (12 
U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 1518. EMPLOYMENT TRANSITION.

    ``(a) Temporary License for Persons Moving From a Financial 
Institution to a Non-bank Originator.--A registered loan originator 
shall be deemed to be a State-licensed loan originator for the 120-day 
period beginning on the date on which a State-licensed mortgage lender, 
mortgage banker, or mortgage servicer that is not a depository 
institution registers with the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and 
Registry that the registered loan originator is employed by the State-
licensed mortgage lender, mortgage banker, or mortgage servicer, as 
applicable.
    ``(b) Temporary License for Persons Moving Interstate.--A 
registered loan originator or State-licensed loan originator in 1 State 
shall be deemed to be a State-licensed loan originator in another State 
for the 120-day period beginning on the date on which a State-licensed 
mortgage lender, mortgage banker, or mortgage servicer in that State 
registers with the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry 
that the registered loan originator or State-licensed loan originator 
is employed by the State-licensed mortgage lender, mortgage banker, or 
mortgage servicer, as applicable.
    ``(c) Federal and State Recognition.--The registration provided 
under subsections (a) and (b) shall fulfill any licensing or 
registration requirement for a loan originator under section 1504 and 
any State law or regulation.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents for 
the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-289; 122 
Stat. 2654) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
1517 the following:

``Sec. 1518. Employment transition.''.

SEC. 920. SHORT FORM CALL REPORTS.

    Section 7(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
1817(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(12) Short form reporting.--
                    ``(A) Review of reports of condition.--The 
                appropriate Federal banking agencies shall jointly 
                review the information and schedules that are required 
                to be filed by an insured depository institution in a 
                report of condition required under paragraph (3). As 
                part of this review, the appropriate Federal banking 
                agencies shall jointly--
                            ``(i) establish guiding principles for 
                        determining the appropriateness of information 
                        and schedules collected in a report of 
                        condition; and
                            ``(ii) consistent with the principles 
                        established under clause (i), consider and 
                        document the need for each data item collected, 
                        the frequency with which each data item will be 
                        collected, and the population of insured 
                        depository institutions from which each data 
                        item is required.
                    ``(B) Development of short form reports of 
                condition.--After completing the review required under 
                subparagraph (A), the appropriate Federal banking 
                agencies shall jointly develop, to the extent 
                appropriate, 1 or more report of condition forms that 
                reduce or eliminate information or schedules required 
                to be filed by an insured depository institution in a 
                report of condition required under paragraph (3). Such 
                form or forms shall, as determined by the appropriate 
                Federal banking agencies, be appropriate for the size 
                and complexity of the insured depository institution.
                    ``(C) Reports to congress.--Not later than 180 days 
                after the date of enactment of this paragraph, and 
                every 180 days thereafter until the appropriate Federal 
                banking agencies have jointly completed the 
                requirements under subparagraphs (A) and (B), the 
                appropriate Federal banking agencies shall submit to 
                the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of 
                the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of 
                the House of Representatives a report describing the 
                progress made concerning the completion of such 
                responsibilities.''.

SEC. 921. APPLICATION OF THE EXPEDITED FUNDS AVAILABILITY ACT.

    (a) In General.--The Expedited Funds Availability Act (12 U.S.C. 
4001 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 602 (12 U.S.C. 4001)--
                    (A) in paragraph (20), by inserting ``, located in 
                the United States,'' after ``ATM'';
                    (B) in paragraph (21), by inserting ``American 
                Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                Islands,'' after ``Puerto Rico,''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (23), by inserting ``American 
                Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                Islands,'' after ``Puerto Rico,''; and
            (2) in section 603(d)(2)(A) (12 U.S.C. 4002(d)(2)(A)), by 
        inserting ``American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
        Mariana Islands,'' after ``Puerto Rico,''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on January 1, 2016.

SEC. 922. APPLICATION OF THE FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT.

    Section 1013 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 
U.S.C. 5493) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Application of FACA.--Notwithstanding any provision of the 
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), such Act shall apply to 
each advisory committee of the Bureau and each subcommittee of such an 
advisory committee.''.

SEC. 923. BUDGET TRANSPARENCY FOR THE NCUA.

    Section 209(b) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1789) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs 
        (2) and (3), respectively;
            (2) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, 
        the following:
            ``(1) on an annual basis and prior to the submission of the 
        detailed business-type budget required under paragraph (2)--
                    ``(A) make publicly available and cause to be 
                printed in the Federal Register a draft of the detailed 
                business-type budget; and
                    ``(B) hold a public hearing, with public notice 
                provided of the hearing, wherein the public may submit 
                comments on the draft of the detailed business-type 
                budget;''; and
            (3) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated--
                    (A) by inserting ``detailed'' after ``submit a''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting ``, which shall address any 
                comment submitted by the public under paragraph 
                (1)(B)'' after ``Control Act''.

SEC. 924. DATE FOR DETERMINING CONSOLIDATED ASSETS.

    Section 171(b)(4)(C) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 
U.S.C. 5371(b)(4)(C)) is amended by inserting ``or March 31, 2010,'' 
after ``December 31, 2009,''.

SEC. 925. FHLB MEMBERSHIP.

    (a) FHLB Membership Proposed Rule.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Community development financial institution.--
                The term ``community development financial 
                institution'' has the meaning given that term in 
                section 103 of the Community Development Banking and 
                Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4702).
                    (B) Covered proposed rule.--The term ``covered 
                proposed rule'' means the proposed rule of the Federal 
                Housing Finance Agency entitled ``Members of Federal 
                Home Loan Banks'' (79 Fed. Reg. 54848 (September 12, 
                2014)).
                    (C) Other terms from the federal home loan bank 
                act.--The terms ``community financial institution'', 
                ``Federal Home Loan Bank'', and ``Federal Home Loan 
                Bank System'' have the meanings given those terms in 
                section 2 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 
                1422).
            (2) Withdrawal of proposed rule.--Not later than 30 days 
        after the date of enactment of this title, the Federal Housing 
        Finance Agency shall withdraw the covered proposed rule.
            (3) GAO study and report on proposed rule.--
                    (A) Study.--
                            (i) In general.--The Comptroller General of 
                        the United States shall conduct a study on the 
                        impact that the covered proposed rule would 
                        have, if adopted as proposed, on--
                                    (I) the ability of the Federal Home 
                                Loan Banks to fulfill the mandate to 
                                provide liquidity to support housing 
                                finance and economic and community 
                                development;
                                    (II) the safety and soundness of 
                                the Federal Home Loan Bank System;
                                    (III) the liquidity needs of 
                                financial intermediaries;
                                    (IV) the stability of the Federal 
                                Home Loan Bank System;
                                    (V) the benefits of a diverse 
                                membership base for Federal Home Loan 
                                Banks; and
                                    (VI) the ability of member 
                                institutions to rely on access to 
                                Federal Home Loan Bank advances.
                            (ii) Considerations.--In conducting the 
                        study under clause (i), the Comptroller General 
                        of the United States shall consider--
                                    (I) the comment letters submitted 
                                in response to the notice of proposed 
                                rulemaking for the covered proposed 
                                rule;
                                    (II) the legislative and 
                                administrative history of the Federal 
                                Home Loan Bank membership rules;
                                    (III) the burden placed on 
                                community financial institutions and 
                                community development financial 
                                institutions; and
                                    (IV) the legal authority of the 
                                Federal Housing Finance Agency to 
                                exclude from membership any class or 
                                category of insurance companies.
                    (B) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
                of enactment of this title, the Comptroller General of 
                the United States shall submit to the Committee on 
                Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and 
                the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the findings of the study 
                conducted under subparagraph (A)(i).
    (b) Credit Union Parity for FHLB Membership Eligibility.--Section 
2(10)(A)(i) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 
1422(10)(A)(i)) is amended to read as follows:
                            ``(i) the deposits of which--
                                    ``(I) are insured under the Federal 
                                Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 
                                et seq.); or
                                    ``(II) are insured under or 
                                eligible to be insured under the 
                                Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 
                                1751 et seq.); and''.

SEC. 926. ENSURING A COMPREHENSIVE REGULATORY REVIEW.

    Section 2222 of the Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork 
Reduction Act of 1996 (12 U.S.C. 3311) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``each appropriate Federal banking 
                agency represented on the Council'' and inserting 
                ``each of the Office of the Comptroller of the 
                Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
                the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
                the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and the 
                National Credit Union Administration Board as the 
                Federal agency representatives on the Council'';
                    (B) by inserting ``, joint or otherwise, and 
                including all regulations issued pursuant to any 
                authority provided under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
                Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-203; 
                124 Stat. 1376),'' after ``prescribed by the Council'';
                    (C) by striking ``any such appropriate Federal 
                banking agency'' and inserting ``any such Federal 
                agency''; and
                    (D) by striking ``insured depository institutions'' 
                and inserting ``financial institutions'';
            (2) in subsections (b), (c), and (d), by striking ``the 
        appropriate Federal banking agency'' each place that term 
        appears and inserting ``the appropriate Federal agency''; and
            (3) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the appropriate 
                Federal banking agencies'' and inserting ``the 
                appropriate Federal agencies''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the appropriate 
                Federal banking agency'' and inserting ``the 
                appropriate Federal agency''.

SEC. 927. PROHIBITION ON IMPLEMENTATION OR PARTICIPATION IN OPERATION 
              CHOKE POINT.

    The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or the 
National Credit Union Administration may not implement or participate 
in the Operation Choke Point initiative of the Department of Justice.

SEC. 928. EXEMPTIVE AUTHORITY.

    (a) Exemptive Authority for the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation.--Section 10 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
U.S.C. 1820) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(l) Exemptive Authority.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Corporation, after considering the factors in 
        paragraph (3), may exempt by rule any depository institution 
        having less than $10,000,000,000 in total assets from--
                    ``(A) any provision of this Act;
                    ``(B) any rule promulgated under this Act; or
                    ``(C) any rule promulgated under any other Act 
                conferring authority to the Corporation.
            ``(2) Conditions.--The Corporation may impose conditions on 
        an exemption granted under paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Factors to consider.--In issuing an exemption under 
        paragraph (1), the Corporation shall consider, as appropriate, 
        the extent to which--
                    ``(A) the provision or rule would impose an 
                unnecessary or undue burden or cost on the depository 
                institution;
                    ``(B) the provision or rule is unnecessary or 
                unwarranted in order to promote the safety and 
                soundness of the depository institution; and
                    ``(C) the exemption is necessary, appropriate, or 
                consistent with the public interest.
            ``(4) Adjustment for changes in gross domestic product.--
        The asset threshold identified in paragraph (1) shall be 
        adjusted annually by the Corporation to reflect the percentage 
        change for the previous calendar year in the gross domestic 
        product of the United States, as calculated by the Bureau of 
        Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce.''.
    (b) Exemptive Authority for the Office of the Comptroller of the 
Currency.--
            (1) Exemptive authority for national banks.--Section 5239A 
        of the Revised Statutes is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Except'' and inserting the 
                following:
    ``(a) In General.--Except''.; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Exemptive Authority.--
            ``(1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `insured 
        depository institution' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
        1813).
            ``(2) Exemption.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Comptroller of the Currency, after considering the 
        factors in paragraph (4), may exempt by rule any national bank 
        having less than $10,000,000,000 in total assets from--
                    ``(A) any provision of this title;
                    ``(B) any rule promulgated under this title; or
                    ``(C) any rule promulgated under any other title or 
                Act that confers authority to the Comptroller.
            ``(3) Conditions.--The Comptroller may impose conditions on 
        an exemption granted under paragraph (2).
            ``(4) Factors to consider.--In issuing an exemption under 
        paragraph (2), the Comptroller shall consider, as appropriate, 
        the extent to which--
                    ``(A) the provision or rule would impose an 
                unnecessary or undue burden or cost on the national 
                bank;
                    ``(B) the provision or rule is unnecessary or 
                unwarranted to promote the safety and soundness of the 
                national bank; and
                    ``(C) the exemption is necessary, appropriate, or 
                consistent with the public interest.
            ``(5) Adjustment for changes in gross domestic product.--
        The asset threshold identified in paragraph (2) shall be 
        adjusted annually by the Comptroller to reflect the percentage 
        change for the previous calendar year in the gross domestic 
        product of the United States, as calculated by the Bureau of 
        Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce.''.
            (2) Exemptive authority for savings associations.--Section 
        4(a) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1463) is amended 
        by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Exemptive authority.--
                    ``(A) Definition.--In this paragraph, the term 
                `insured depository institution' has the meaning given 
                the term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
                    ``(B) Exemption.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, the Comptroller of the Currency, 
                after considering the factors in subparagraph (D), may 
                exempt by rule any savings association having less than 
                $10,000,000,000 in total assets from--
                            ``(i) any provision of this title;
                            ``(ii) any rule promulgated under this 
                        title; or
                            ``(iii) any rule promulgated under any 
                        other title or act conferring authority on the 
                        Comptroller.
                    ``(C) Conditions.--The Comptroller may impose 
                conditions on an exemption granted under subparagraph 
                (B).
                    ``(D) Factors to consider.--In issuing an exemption 
                under subparagraph (B), the Comptroller shall consider, 
                as appropriate, the extent to which--
                            ``(i) the provision or rule would impose an 
                        unnecessary or undue burden or cost on the 
                        savings association;
                            ``(ii) the provision or rule is unnecessary 
                        or unwarranted to promote the safety and 
                        soundness of the savings association; and
                            ``(iii) the exemption is necessary, 
                        appropriate, or consistent with the public 
                        interest.
                    ``(E) Adjustment for changes in gross domestic 
                product.--The asset threshold identified in 
                subparagraph (B) shall be adjusted annually by the 
                Comptroller to reflect the percentage change for the 
                previous calendar year in the gross domestic product of 
                the United States, as calculated by the Bureau of 
                Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce.''.
    (c) Exemptive Authority for the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System.--
            (1) Exemptive authority for state member banks.--Section 11 
        of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248) is amended by adding 
        at the end the following:
    ``(t) Exemptive Authority.--
            ``(1) Definition.--In this section, the term `insured 
        depository institution' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
        1813).
            ``(2) Exemption.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Board, after considering the factors in paragraph (4), 
        may exempt by rule any state member bank having less than 
        $10,000,000,000 in total assets from--
                    ``(A) any provision of this Act;
                    ``(B) any rule promulgated under this Act; or
                    ``(C) any rule promulgated under any other act 
                conferring authority on the Board.
            ``(3) Conditions.--The Board may impose conditions on an 
        exemption granted under paragraph (2).
            ``(4) Factors to consider.--In issuing an exemption under 
        paragraph (2), the Board shall consider, as appropriate, the 
        extent to which--
                    ``(A) the provision or rule would impose an 
                unnecessary or undue burden or cost on the state member 
                bank;
                    ``(B) the provision or rule is unnecessary or 
                unwarranted to promote the safety and soundness of the 
                state member bank; and
                    ``(C) the exemption is necessary, appropriate, or 
                consistent with the public interest.
            ``(5) Adjustment for changes in gross domestic product.--
        The asset threshold identified in paragraph (2) shall be 
        adjusted annually by the Board to reflect the percentage change 
        for the previous calendar year in the gross domestic product of 
        the United States, as calculated by the Bureau of Economic 
        Analysis of the Department of Commerce.''.
            (2) Exemptive authority for bank holding companies.--The 
        Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq.) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 15. EXEMPTIVE AUTHORITY.

    ``(a) Definition.--In this section, the term `insured depository 
institution' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
    ``(b) Exemption.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Board, after considering the factors in subsection (d), may exempt by 
rule any bank holding company having less than $10,000,000,000 in total 
assets from--
            ``(1) any provision of this Act;
            ``(2) any rule promulgated under this Act; or
            ``(3) any rule promulgated under any other act conferring 
        authority on the Board.
    ``(c) Conditions.--The Board may impose conditions on an exemption 
granted under subsection (b).
    ``(d) Factors to Consider.--In issuing an exemption under 
subsection (b), the Board shall consider, as appropriate, the extent to 
which--
            ``(1) the provision or rule would impose an unnecessary or 
        undue burden or cost on the bank holding company;
            ``(2) the provision or rule is unnecessary or unwarranted 
        to promote the safety and soundness of the bank holding 
        company; and
            ``(3) the exemption is necessary, appropriate, or 
        consistent with the public interest.
    ``(e) Adjustment for Changes in Gross Domestic Product.--The asset 
threshold identified in subsection (b) shall be adjusted annually by 
the Board to reflect the percentage change for the previous calendar 
year in the gross domestic product of the United States, as calculated 
by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce.''.
            (3) Exemptive authority for savings and loan holding 
        companies and mutual holding companies.--Section 10 of the Home 
        Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a) is amended by adding at the 
        end the following:
    ``(u) Exemptive Authority.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                    ``(A) the term `insured depository institution' has 
                the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Federal 
                Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813); and
                    ``(B) the term `mutual holding company' has the 
                meaning given the term in subsection (o)(10)(A).
            ``(2) Exemption.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Board, after considering the factors in paragraph (4), 
        may exempt by rule any savings and loan holding company or any 
        mutual holding company having less than $10,000,000,000 in 
        total assets from--
                    ``(A) any provision of this Act;
                    ``(B) any rule promulgated under this Act; or
                    ``(C) any rule promulgated under any other Act 
                conferring authority on the Board.
            ``(3) Conditions.--The Board may impose conditions on an 
        exemption granted under paragraph (2).
            ``(4) Factors to consider.--In issuing an exemption under 
        paragraph (2), the Board shall consider the extent to which--
                    ``(A) the provision or rule would impose an 
                unnecessary or undue burden or cost on the savings and 
                loan holding company or the mutual holding company;
                    ``(B) the provision or rule is unnecessary or 
                unwarranted to promote the safety and soundness of the 
                savings and loan holding company or the mutual holding 
                company; and
                    ``(C) the exemption is necessary, appropriate, or 
                consistent with the public interest.
            ``(5) Limitation.--The authority granted under paragraph 
        (2) shall not apply with respect to a savings and loan holding 
        company described in subsection (c)(9)(C).
            ``(6) Adjustment for changes in gross domestic product.--
        The asset threshold identified in paragraph (2) shall be 
        adjusted annually by the Board to reflect the percentage change 
        for the previous calendar year in the gross domestic product of 
        the United States, as calculated by the Bureau of Economic 
        Analysis of the Department of Commerce.''.

       Subtitle B--Systemically Important Bank Holding Companies

SEC. 931. REVISIONS TO COUNCIL AUTHORITY.

    (a) Purposes and Duties.--Section 112(a)(2)(I) of the Financial 
Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5322(a)(2)(I)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and large, interconnected bank holding 
        companies''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and bank holding companies subject to a 
        determination under section 113A(a)'' before the semicolon at 
        the end.
    (b) Authority to Require Supervision and Regulation of Certain Bank 
Holding Companies.--The Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5311 
et seq.) is amended by adding after section 113 (12 U.S.C. 5323) the 
following:

``SEC. 113A. AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF 
              SYSTEMICALLY IMPORTANT BANK HOLDING COMPANIES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Council may, in accordance with the 
procedures described in subsections (c) and (d), determine that a bank 
holding company shall be deemed systemically important.
    ``(b) Considerations.--
            ``(1) The Council shall, not later than 90 days after the 
        date of enactment of this section, issue regulations describing 
        with specificity the factors that the Council will use to make 
        a determination under subsection (a). Such factors shall 
        initially include the following:
                    ``(A) The size of the bank holding company.
                    ``(B) The interconnectedness of the bank holding 
                company.
                    ``(C) The extent of readily available substitutes 
                or financial institution infrastructure for the 
                services provided by the bank holding company.
                    ``(D) The global cross-jurisdictional activity of 
                the bank holding company.
                    ``(E) The complexity of the bank holding company.
            ``(2) The Council may, by regulation, add to, subtract, or 
        modify the factors used by the Council pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) if the Council--
                    ``(A) provides notice to the public and opportunity 
                for comment on any proposed changes;
                    ``(B) explains, as part of the notice required in 
                subparagraph (A), with specificity how any proposed 
                changes would result in factors that more accurately 
                measure the threat that the material financial distress 
                of a bank holding company could pose to the financial 
                stability of the United States, in comparison with the 
                existing factors; and
                    ``(C) finds, on a nondelegable basis and by a vote 
                of not fewer than \2/3\ of the voting members then 
                serving, including an affirmative vote by the 
                Chairperson, that such a change would result in factors 
                that more accurately measure the threat that the 
                material financial distress of a bank holding company 
                could pose to the financial stability of the United 
                States, in comparison with the existing factors.
    ``(c) Bank Holding Companies Deemed Systemically Important.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to a bank holding company 
        with total consolidated assets of not less than $50,000,000,000 
        and not more than $500,000,000,000 (as such amounts are 
        adjusted annually by the Council to reflect the percentage 
        change for the previous calendar year in the gross domestic 
        product of the United States, as calculated by the Bureau of 
        Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce), the Council 
        may, on a nondelegable basis and by a vote of not fewer than 
        \2/3\ of the voting members then serving, including an 
        affirmative vote by the Chairperson, make a determination under 
        subsection (a) if the Council determines, based on the factors 
        considered pursuant to subsection (b), that the material 
        financial distress of a bank holding company could pose a 
        threat to the financial stability of the United States.
            ``(2) Requirements for proposed determination, notice and 
        opportunity for hearing, and final determination.--
                    ``(A) Initial evaluation by the board of 
                governors.--The Board of Governors may identify a bank 
                holding company for an evaluation of whether, based on 
                the factors considered pursuant to subsection (b), the 
                material financial distress of the bank holding company 
                could pose a threat to the financial stability of the 
                United States. Upon identifying such bank holding 
                company, the Board of Governors--
                            ``(i) shall provide the bank holding 
                        company with--
                                    ``(I) a written notice that shall 
                                include any quantitative analysis used 
                                in identifying the bank holding company 
                                and shall explain with specificity the 
                                basis for identifying the bank holding 
                                company;
                                    ``(II) an opportunity to submit 
                                written materials for consideration by 
                                the Board of Governors as part of an 
                                evaluation by the Board of Governors 
                                under clause (ii); and
                                    ``(III) an opportunity to meet with 
                                representatives of the Board of 
                                Governors to discuss the analysis 
                                conducted by the Board of Governors to 
                                identify the bank holding company;
                            ``(ii) may, after fulfilling the 
                        requirements of clause (i), evaluate whether, 
                        based on the factors considered pursuant to 
                        subsection (b), the material financial distress 
                        of the bank holding company could pose a threat 
                        to the financial stability of the United 
                        States;
                            ``(iii) may, at the conclusion of an 
                        evaluation under clause (ii), make a 
                        recommendation to the Council that the Council 
                        perform an evaluation under subparagraph 
                        (B)(ii)(I); and
                            ``(iv) shall, if a recommendation is made 
                        under clause (iii), provide written notice to 
                        the bank holding company that a recommendation 
                        was made, which notice shall include a detailed 
                        explanation of the basis for the 
                        recommendation, including how each factor 
                        considered pursuant to subsection (b) relates 
                        to the potential threat posed by the bank 
                        holding company to the financial stability of 
                        the United States.
                    ``(B) Evaluation by the council.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Council may only 
                        make a proposed determination with respect to a 
                        bank holding company under subparagraph (C)(i) 
                        if the Council--
                                    ``(I) has received a recommendation 
                                under subparagraph (A)(iii) with 
                                respect to the bank holding company; or
                                    ``(II) not earlier than the 
                                effective date of this section, and 
                                after consultation and coordination 
                                with the Board of Governors, on a 
                                nondelegable basis and by a vote of not 
                                fewer than \2/3\ of the voting members 
                                then serving, including an affirmative 
                                vote by the Chairperson, decides to 
                                evaluate the bank holding company for a 
                                proposed determination under 
                                subparagraph (C)(i).
                            ``(ii) Requirements before making a 
                        proposed determination.--Before making a 
                        proposed determination with respect to a bank 
                        holding company under subparagraph (C)(i), and 
                        after receiving a recommendation under clause 
                        (i)(I) or making a decision under clause 
                        (i)(II), the Council shall--
                                    ``(I) perform an evaluation of the 
                                bank holding company, including an 
                                evaluation of--
                                            ``(aa) whether the material 
                                        financial distress of the bank 
                                        holding company could pose a 
                                        threat to the financial 
                                        stability of the United States; 
                                        and
                                            ``(bb) how each of the 
                                        factors considered pursuant to 
                                        subsection (b) relates to the 
                                        potential threat posed by the 
                                        bank holding company to the 
                                        financial stability of the 
                                        United States; and
                                    ``(II) provide the bank holding 
                                company with--
                                            ``(aa) a written notice 
                                        that the bank holding company 
                                        is being evaluated;
                                            ``(bb) an opportunity to 
                                        meet with representatives of 
                                        the Council to discuss the 
                                        evaluation by the Council; and
                                            ``(cc) an opportunity to 
                                        submit written materials to the 
                                        Council, within such time as 
                                        the Council deems appropriate 
                                        (but not earlier than 30 days 
                                        after the date of receipt of 
                                        the notice under item (aa)).
                    ``(C) Proposed determination.--
                            ``(i) Voting.--After fulfilling the 
                        requirements of subparagraph (B), the Council 
                        may, on a nondelegable basis and by a vote of 
                        not fewer than \2/3\ of the voting members then 
                        serving, including an affirmative vote by the 
                        Chairperson, propose to make a determination 
                        under paragraph (1) with respect to a bank 
                        holding company.
                            ``(ii) Notice of proposed determination.--
                        If the Council makes a proposed determination 
                        under clause (i), the Council shall provide a 
                        notice to the bank holding company, which 
                        notice shall contain the basis for the proposed 
                        determination, including a detailed explanation 
                        of the evaluation performed under subparagraph 
                        (B)(ii)(I).
                    ``(D) Requirements before final determination.--
                After making a proposed determination under 
                subparagraph (C)(i) and prior to making a final 
                determination under paragraph (1), the Council shall--
                            ``(i) not later than 30 days after the date 
                        of receipt of any notice under subparagraph 
                        (C)(ii), provide the bank holding company with 
                        an opportunity to request, in writing, a 
                        hearing before the Council to contest the 
                        proposed determination;
                            ``(ii) if the Council receives a timely 
                        request under clause (i), fix a time (not 
                        earlier than 30 days after the date of receipt 
                        of the request) and place at which the bank 
                        holding company may appear, personally or 
                        through counsel, to, at the discretion of the 
                        bank holding company--
                                    ``(I) submit a plan to modify the 
                                business, structure, or operations of 
                                the bank holding company in order to 
                                address the factors and the potential 
                                threat posed by the bank holding 
                                company to the financial stability of 
                                the United States identified pursuant 
                                to subparagraph (C)(ii);
                                    ``(II) submit written materials in 
                                addition to or separate from the plan 
                                described in subclause (I); and
                                    ``(III) provide oral testimony and 
                                oral argument to the members of the 
                                Council, with not fewer than \2/3\ of 
                                the voting members of the Council, 
                                including the Chairperson, in 
                                attendance; and
                            ``(iii) in the event a plan is submitted to 
                        the Council under clause (ii)(I)--
                                    ``(I) consider whether the plan, if 
                                implemented, would address the factors 
                                and the potential threat posed by the 
                                bank holding company to the financial 
                                stability of the United States 
                                identified pursuant to subparagraph 
                                (C)(ii); and
                                    ``(II) provide the bank holding 
                                company with--
                                            ``(aa) analysis of whether 
                                        and to what extent the plan 
                                        addresses the factors and the 
                                        potential threat posed by the 
                                        bank holding company to the 
                                        financial stability of the 
                                        United States identified 
                                        pursuant to subparagraph 
                                        (C)(ii);
                                            ``(bb) an opportunity to 
                                        meet with representatives of 
                                        the Council to discuss the 
                                        analysis provided under item 
                                        (aa); and
                                            ``(cc) an opportunity to 
                                        revise the plan after 
                                        discussions with 
                                        representatives of the Council.
                    ``(E) Final determination.--
                            ``(i) In general.--After fulfilling the 
                        requirements of subparagraph (D), and not later 
                        than 90 days after the date on which a hearing 
                        is held under subparagraph (D)(ii), the Council 
                        may vote to make a final determination under 
                        paragraph (1). The Council may delay the vote 
                        up to 1 additional year after the conclusion of 
                        the 90-day period if considering a plan under 
                        subparagraph (D)(iii).
                            ``(ii) Outcome of the vote.--If the Council 
                        votes on a final determination under paragraph 
                        (1), the Council shall promptly inform the bank 
                        holding company of the outcome of the vote in 
                        writing.
                            ``(iii) Notice of final determination.--If 
                        the Council votes to make a final determination 
                        under paragraph (1), the Council shall, not 
                        later than 30 days after the date of the vote, 
                        provide a notice to the bank holding company, 
                        which notice shall contain--
                                    ``(I) the basis for the 
                                determination, including--
                                            ``(aa) a detailed analysis 
                                        of any plan submitted by the 
                                        bank holding company and 
                                        considered by the Council under 
                                        subparagraph (D), if 
                                        applicable, which analysis 
                                        shall, at a minimum, include--

                                                    ``(AA) whether and 
                                                to what extent 
                                                successful 
                                                implementation of the 
                                                plan could address the 
                                                factors and the 
                                                potential threat posed 
                                                by the bank holding 
                                                company to the 
                                                financial stability of 
                                                the United States 
                                                identified pursuant to 
                                                subparagraph (C)(ii); 
                                                and

                                                    ``(BB) a detailed 
                                                explanation of why the 
                                                plan would not address 
                                                the factors and the 
                                                potential threat posed 
                                                by the bank holding 
                                                company to the 
                                                financial stability of 
                                                the United States 
                                                identified pursuant to 
                                                subparagraph (C)(ii), 
                                                if the Council, during 
                                                its consideration of 
                                                the plan under 
                                                subparagraph 
                                                (D)(iii)(I), concluded 
                                                that the plan would not 
                                                address such factors or 
                                                potential threat;

                                            ``(bb) the reasons why the 
                                        materials and other information 
                                        submitted or provided by the 
                                        bank holding company under 
                                        subclauses (II) and (III) of 
                                        subparagraph (D)(ii) did not 
                                        address the potential threat 
                                        posed by the bank holding 
                                        company to the financial 
                                        stability of the United States;
                                            ``(cc) a detailed analysis 
                                        of how the factors, including 
                                        an explanation of how each 
                                        factor relates to the potential 
                                        threat posed by the bank 
                                        holding company to the 
                                        financial stability of the 
                                        United States, that the Council 
                                        considered pursuant to 
                                        subsection (b) resulted in the 
                                        final determination under 
                                        paragraph (1); and
                                            ``(dd) specific aspects of 
                                        the business, operations, or 
                                        structure of the bank holding 
                                        company that the Council 
                                        believes could pose a threat to 
                                        the financial stability of the 
                                        United States, including an 
                                        assessment by the Council of 
                                        the probability and magnitude 
                                        of the threat; and
                                    ``(II) an explanation of actions 
                                the bank holding company could take in 
                                order for the Council to rescind the 
                                determination.
            ``(3) Reevaluation and rescission.--
                    ``(A) Reevaluation requirement.--The Council shall, 
                in accordance with this paragraph, reevaluate a final 
                determination made under paragraph (1) with respect to 
                a bank holding company--
                            ``(i) if, at any time, the Board of 
                        Governors recommends that the Council do so; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) not less frequently than once every 
                        5 years.
                    ``(B) Reevaluation procedure.--The Council, in 
                conducting any reevaluation of a bank holding company 
                required under subparagraph (A), shall--
                            ``(i) provide a written notice to the bank 
                        holding company being reevaluated;
                            ``(ii) afford the bank holding company an 
                        opportunity to submit a plan, within such time 
                        as the Council determines to be appropriate 
                        (but which shall be not earlier than 30 days 
                        after the date of receipt by the bank holding 
                        company of the notice provided under clause 
                        (i)), to modify the business, structure, or 
                        operations of the bank holding company;
                            ``(iii) afford the bank holding company an 
                        opportunity to submit written materials in 
                        addition to, or separate from, the plan 
                        described in clause (ii), within such time as 
                        the Council determines to be appropriate (but 
                        which shall be not earlier than 30 days after 
                        the date of receipt by the bank holding company 
                        of the notice provided under clause (i)), to 
                        contest the determination, including materials 
                        concerning whether, in the view of the bank 
                        holding company, the material financial 
                        distress at the bank holding company could pose 
                        a threat to the financial stability of the 
                        United States;
                            ``(iv) provide an opportunity for the bank 
                        holding company to meet with representatives of 
                        the Council to present the information 
                        described in clauses (ii) and (iii);
                            ``(v) not earlier than 30 days after the 
                        date of receipt of any notice under clause (i), 
                        provide the bank holding company with an 
                        opportunity to request, in writing, a hearing 
                        before the Council to contest its final 
                        determination under paragraph (1); and
                            ``(vi) if the Council receives a timely 
                        request under clause (v), fix a time (not 
                        earlier than 30 days after the date of receipt 
                        of the request) and place at which the bank 
                        holding company may appear, personally or 
                        through counsel, to, at the discretion of the 
                        bank holding company, provide oral testimony 
                        and oral argument to the members of the 
                        Council, with not fewer than \2/3\ of the 
                        voting members of the Council, including the 
                        Chairperson, in attendance.
                    ``(C) Company plan.--If a bank holding company 
                submits a plan in accordance with subparagraph (B)(ii), 
                the Council shall--
                            ``(i) consider whether the plan, if 
                        implemented, would result in the bank holding 
                        company no longer meeting the criteria for a 
                        final determination under paragraph (1); and
                            ``(ii) provide the bank holding company 
                        with--
                                    ``(I) analysis of whether and to 
                                what extent the plan addresses the 
                                potential threat posed by the bank 
                                holding company to the financial 
                                stability of the United States;
                                    ``(II) an opportunity to meet with 
                                representatives of the Council to 
                                discuss the analysis provided under 
                                subclause (I); and
                                    ``(III) an opportunity to revise 
                                the plan after discussions with 
                                representatives of the Council.
                    ``(D) Voting and explanation.--
                            ``(i) In general.--After evaluating the 
                        materials and information provided by a bank 
                        holding company under subparagraph (B) and 
                        fulfilling the requirements of subparagraph 
                        (C), and not later than 180 days after the date 
                        of receipt by the bank holding company of the 
                        notice provided under subparagraph (B)(i), the 
                        Council shall, on a nondelegable basis and by a 
                        vote of not fewer than \2/3\ of the voting 
                        members then serving, including an affirmative 
                        vote by the Chairperson, determine whether to 
                        renew a final determination under paragraph 
                        (1).
                            ``(ii) Notice of final determination.--If 
                        the Council votes to renew a final 
                        determination under clause (i), the Council 
                        shall provide a notice to the bank holding 
                        company with the reasons for the decision by 
                        the Council, which notice shall address with 
                        specificity--
                                    ``(I) any changes to the basis for 
                                the final determination decision made 
                                under paragraph (1) since the date on 
                                which the final determination under 
                                paragraph (1) was made, including any 
                                changes to the information provided to 
                                the bank holding company under--
                                            ``(aa) paragraph 
                                        (2)(E)(iii)(I)(cc); or
                                            ``(bb) this clause, in 
                                        prior years;
                                    ``(II) any plan submitted by the 
                                bank holding company and considered by 
                                the Council under subparagraph (C), and 
                                shall, at a minimum, include--
                                            ``(aa) a detailed analysis 
                                        of whether and to what extent 
                                        successful implementation of 
                                        the plan could result in the 
                                        bank holding company no longer 
                                        meeting the criteria for a 
                                        final determination under 
                                        paragraph (1); and
                                            ``(bb) a detailed 
                                        explanation of why, if the plan 
                                        were implemented, the bank 
                                        holding company would still 
                                        meet the criteria for a final 
                                        determination under paragraph 
                                        (1), if the Council, during its 
                                        consideration of the plan under 
                                        subparagraph (C), concluded 
                                        that the bank holding company 
                                        would still meet those criteria 
                                        if the plan were implemented;
                                    ``(III) aspects of the business, 
                                operations, or structure of the bank 
                                holding company that the Council 
                                believes could pose a threat to the 
                                financial stability of the United 
                                States, including the probability and 
                                magnitude of that threat; and
                                    ``(IV) an explanation of actions 
                                the bank holding company could take in 
                                order for the Council to rescind the 
                                determination.
                            ``(iii) No final determination.--If the 
                        Council does not vote to renew a final 
                        determination under clause (i), then the 
                        existing final determination under paragraph 
                        (1) shall be rescinded and the Council shall 
                        inform the bank holding company in writing.
                            ``(iv) Voting threshold for rescission of 
                        determination.--Notwithstanding clause (iii), 
                        the Council may, at any time, on a nondelegable 
                        basis and by a vote of not fewer than \2/3\ of 
                        the voting members then serving, including an 
                        affirmative vote by the Chairperson, determine 
                        that a bank holding company no longer meets the 
                        criteria for a final determination under 
                        paragraph (1), in which case the Council shall 
                        rescind the final determination.
            ``(4) Emergency exception.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Council may waive or modify 
                the requirements of paragraph (2) with respect to a 
                bank holding company with total consolidated assets of 
                not less than $50,000,000,000 and not more than 
                $500,000,000,000 (as such amounts are adjusted annually 
                by the Council to reflect the percentage change for the 
                previous calendar year in the gross domestic product of 
                the United States, as calculated by the Bureau of 
                Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce) if the 
                Council determines, on a nondelegable basis and by a 
                vote of not fewer than \2/3\ of the voting members then 
                serving, including an affirmative vote by the 
                Chairperson, that such waiver or modification is 
                necessary or appropriate to prevent or mitigate threats 
                posed by the bank holding company to the financial 
                stability of the United States.
                    ``(B) Notice.--The Council shall provide notice of 
                a waiver or modification under this paragraph to the 
                bank holding company concerned as soon as practicable, 
                but not later than 24 hours after the waiver or 
                modification is granted.
                    ``(C) International coordination.--In making a 
                determination under subparagraph (A), the Council shall 
                consult with the appropriate home country supervisor, 
                if any, of a foreign bank holding company that is being 
                considered for such a determination.
                    ``(D) Opportunity for hearing.--The Council shall 
                allow a bank holding company to request, in writing, an 
                opportunity for a hearing before the Council to contest 
                a waiver or modification under this paragraph, not 
                later than 10 days after the date of receipt of the 
                notice of waiver or modification. Upon receipt of a 
                timely request, the Council shall fix a time (not later 
                than 15 days after the date of receipt of the request) 
                and place at which the bank holding company may appear, 
                personally or through counsel, to submit written 
                materials (or, at the sole discretion of the Council, 
                oral testimony and oral argument).
                    ``(E) Notice of final determination.--Not later 
                than 30 days after the date of any hearing under 
                subparagraph (D), the Council shall notify the subject 
                bank holding company of the final determination of the 
                Council under this paragraph, which shall contain a 
                statement of the basis for the decision of the Council.
            ``(5) Consultation.--The Council shall consult with the 
        primary financial regulatory agency for each bank holding 
        company that is being considered by the Council under this 
        section from the outset of the consideration of the bank 
        holding company by the Council, including before the Council 
        makes any proposed determination under paragraph (2)(C)(i) or 
        final determination under paragraph (1).
            ``(6) Judicial review.--If the Council makes or renews a 
        final determination under this subsection with respect to a 
        bank holding company, such bank holding company may, not later 
        than 30 days after the date of receipt of the notice of final 
        determination under paragraph (2)(E)(iii) or of renewal of a 
        final determination under paragraph (3)(D)(ii), bring an action 
        in the United States district court for the judicial district 
        in which the home office of such bank holding company is 
        located, or in the United States District Court for the 
        District of Columbia, for an order requiring that the final 
        determination be rescinded, and the court shall, upon review, 
        dismiss such action or direct the final determination to be 
        rescinded. Review of such an action shall be limited to whether 
        the final determination made under this subsection was 
        arbitrary and capricious.
            ``(7) Public disclosure requirement.--The Council shall--
                    ``(A) in each case that a bank holding company has 
                received a notice under paragraph (2)(B)(ii)(II)(aa), 
                and the bank holding company has publicly disclosed 
                that the bank holding company is being evaluated by the 
                Council, confirm that the bank holding company is being 
                evaluated by the Council, in response to a request from 
                a third party;
                    ``(B) upon making a final determination under 
                paragraph (1) or renewing a final determination under 
                paragraph (3)(D)(i), publicly provide a detailed 
                written explanation of the basis for the final 
                determination with sufficient detail to provide the 
                public with an understanding of the specific bases of 
                the determination by the Council, including any 
                assumptions related thereof, subject to the 
                requirements of section 112(d)(5); and
                    ``(C) include, in the annual report required under 
                section 112--
                            ``(i) the number of bank holding companies 
                        from the previous year that received a notice 
                        under paragraph (2)(B)(ii)(II)(aa);
                            ``(ii) the number of bank holding companies 
                        from the previous year that were subject to a 
                        proposed determination under paragraph 
                        (2)(C)(i); and
                            ``(iii) the number of bank holding 
                        companies from the previous year that were 
                        subject to a final determination under 
                        paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Bank Holding Companies Automatically Deemed Systemically 
Important.--
            ``(1) Automatic determination.--A bank holding company with 
        total consolidated assets of more than $500,000,000,000 (as 
        such amount is adjusted annually by the Council to reflect the 
        percentage change for the previous calendar year in the gross 
        domestic product of the United States, as calculated by the 
        Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce) 
        shall automatically be subject to a determination under 
        subsection (a).
            ``(2) Rule of construction.--
                    ``(A) Bank holding company increasing in size.--If, 
                subsequent to the effective date, a bank holding 
                company that was previously subject to a final 
                determination under subsection (c)(1) grows to have 
                total consolidated assets of more than $500,000,000,000 
                (as such amount is adjusted annually by the Council to 
                reflect the percentage change for the previous calendar 
                year in the gross domestic product of the United 
                States, as calculated by the Bureau of Economic 
                Analysis of the Department of Commerce) for a period of 
                180 consecutive days, the bank holding company shall be 
                subject to an automatic determination under paragraph 
                (1) and not subject to a determination under subsection 
                (c)(1) for the purposes of this section.
                    ``(B) Bank holding company decreasing in size.--If 
                a bank holding company subject to an automatic 
                determination under paragraph (1) decreases in size, 
                such that the bank holding company no longer is a bank 
                holding company with total consolidated assets of more 
                than $500,000,000,000 (as such amount is adjusted 
                annually by the Council to reflect the percentage 
                change for the previous calendar year in the gross 
                domestic product of the United States, as calculated by 
                the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of 
                Commerce) for a period of 180 consecutive days, the 
                bank holding company shall be considered subject to a 
                final determination under subsection (c)(1) and not 
                subject to an automatic determination under paragraph 
                (1) for the purposes of this section.
    ``(e) International Coordination.--In exercising its duties under 
this title with respect to foreign bank holding companies, foreign-
based bank holding companies, and cross-border activities and markets, 
the Council shall consult with appropriate foreign regulatory 
authorities, to the extent appropriate.''.
    (c) Enhanced Supervision.--Section 115 of the Financial Stability 
Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5325) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) of 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``large, interconnected bank 
                holding companies'' and inserting ``bank holding 
                companies subject to a determination under section 
                113A(a)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; 
                        or'' and inserting a period;
                            (ii) by striking ``the Council may'' and 
                        all that follows through ``differentiate'' and 
                        inserting ``the Council may differentiate''; 
                        and
                            (iii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
            (2) in subsection (b)(3), by inserting ``and the factors 
        used by the Council pursuant to section 113A(b)'' after 
        ``subsections (a) and (b) of section 113'' each place that term 
        appears.
    (d) Reports.--The matter preceding paragraph (1) of section 116(a) 
of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5326(a)) is amended 
by striking ``with total consolidated assets of $50,000,000,000 or 
greater'' and inserting ``subject to a determination under section 
113A(a)''.
    (e) Mitigation.--Section 121 of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 
(12 U.S.C. 5331) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) of subsection 
        (a), by striking ``with total consolidated assets of 
        $50,000,000,000 or more'' and inserting ``subject to a 
        determination under section 113A(a)''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by inserting ``in the case of a 
        nonbank financial company, and the factors used by the Council 
        pursuant to section 113A(b) in the case of a bank holding 
        company'' after ``as applicable,''.
    (f) Office of Financial Research.--Section 155(d) of the Financial 
Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5345(d)) is amended by striking ``with 
total consolidated assets of 50,000,000,000 or greater'' and inserting 
``subject to a determination under section 113A(a)''.

SEC. 932. REVISIONS TO BOARD AUTHORITY.

    (a) Acquisitions.--Section 163 of the Financial Stability Act of 
2010 (12 U.S.C. 5363) is amended by striking ``with total consolidated 
assets equal to or greater than $50,000,000,000'' each place that term 
appears and inserting ``subject to a determination under section 
113A(a)''.
    (b) Management Interlocks.--Section 164 of the Financial Stability 
Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5364) is amended by striking ``with total 
consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50,000,000,000'' and 
inserting ``subject to a determination under section 113A(a)''.
    (c) Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards.--Section 165 of 
the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5365) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``with total 
                consolidated assets equal to or greater than 
                $50,000,000,000'' and inserting ``subject to a 
                determination under section 113A(a)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``Application'' and all 
                        that follows through ``In prescribing'' and 
                        inserting ``Application.--In prescribing''; and
                            (ii) by striking subparagraph (B);
            (2) in subsection (b)(3), by inserting ``and the factors 
        used by the Council pursuant to section 113A(b)'' after 
        ``subsections (a) and (b) of section 113'' each place that term 
        appears;
            (3) in subsection (h), by striking ``$10,000,000,000'' each 
        place that term appears and inserting ``$50,000,000,000 (as 
        such amount is adjusted annually by the Council to reflect the 
        percentage change for the previous calendar year in the gross 
        domestic product of the United States, as calculated by the 
        Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce)'';
            (4) in subsection (i)(2)(A), by striking 
        ``$10,000,000,000'' and inserting ``$50,000,000,000 (as such 
        amount is adjusted annually by the Council to reflect the 
        percentage change for the previous calendar year in the gross 
        domestic product of the United States, as calculated by the 
        Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce)''; 
        and
            (5) in subsection (j)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``with total 
                consolidated assets equal to or greater than 
                $50,000,000,000'' and inserting ``described in 
                subsection (a)''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(2) Considerations.--In making a determination under this 
        subsection, the Council shall--
                    ``(A) in the case of a nonbank financial company 
                supervised by the Board of Governors, consider the 
                factors described in subsections (a) and (b) of section 
                113 and any other risk-related factors that the Council 
                deems appropriate; and
                    ``(B) in the case of a bank holding company 
                described in subsection (a), consider the factors used 
                by the Council pursuant to section 113A(b).''.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--The second subsection designated as 
subsection (s)(2) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(s)(2)) 
(relating to assessments, fees, and other charges for certain 
companies) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``having total 
        consolidated assets of $50,000,000,000 or more;'' and inserting 
        ``subject to a determination under section 113A(a) of the 
        Financial Stability Act of 2010; and'';
            (2) by striking subparagraph (B); and
            (3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B).

SEC. 933. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) In General.--The amendments made by this subtitle shall, except 
as otherwise provided, take effect on the date that is 180 days after 
the date on which the regulations required under section 113A(b) of the 
Financial Stability Act of 2010, as added by section 931(b) of this 
title, are issued.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this subtitle shall be 
construed to prohibit the Financial Stability Oversight Council 
established under section 111 of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 
(12 U.S.C. 5321) or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System from complying with any of the requirements of section 113A of 
that Act, as added by section 931(b) of this title, with respect to a 
bank holding company (as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841)) prior to the effective date 
described in subsection (a).

SEC. 934. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate federal banking agencies; bank holding 
        company.--The terms ``appropriate Federal banking agencies'' 
        and ``bank holding company'' have the meanings given those 
        terms in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1813).
            (2) Nonbank financial company.--The term ``nonbank 
        financial company'' has the meaning given that term in section 
        102(a) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5311).
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
appropriate Federal banking agencies should seek to properly tailor 
prudential regulations and, in doing so, differentiate among bank 
holding companies and among nonbank financial companies supervised by 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System based on their 
capital structure, riskiness, complexity, financial activities 
(including the financial activities of their subsidiaries), size, and 
other risk-related factors, using existing authorities, including 
waiver authorities provided in statute or regulation.

SEC. 935. PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to limit the supervisory, 
regulatory, or enforcement authority of a Federal banking agency (as 
defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
1813)) to further the safe and sound operation of an institution that 
the Federal banking agency supervises, except as specifically provided 
in this title.

Subtitle C--Greater Transparency for the Financial Stability Oversight 
            Council Process for Nonbank Financial Companies

SEC. 941. ACCESS TO COUNCIL MEETINGS BY AGENCY MEMBERS.

    Section 111(e) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 
5321(e)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Access.--Any member of the governing body of a member 
        agency headed by a member of the Council described in 
        subparagraph (B), (E), (F), (G), or (I) of paragraph (1) of 
        subsection (b)--
                    ``(A) may attend a meeting of the Council, 
                including any meeting of representatives of the members 
                of the Council; and
                    ``(B) shall have access to the same information and 
                materials that a member of the Council described in 
                subparagraph (B), (E), (F), (G), or (I) of paragraph 
                (1) of subsection (b) is provided or entitled to.''.

SEC. 942. NONBANK DETERMINATION PROCESS.

    Section 113 of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5323) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                inserting ``factors, including'' after ``consider'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``1 or more 
                primary financial regulatory agencies'' and inserting 
                ``its primary financial regulatory agency, including 
                the appropriateness of the imposition of prudential 
                standards in addition to or as opposed to other forms 
                of regulation'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (J), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (D) by redesignating subparagraph (K) as 
                subparagraph (L); and
                    (E) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the 
                following:
                    ``(K) actions taken by the primary financial 
                regulatory agency pursuant to subsection (e)(1)(C); 
                and'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                inserting ``factors, including'' after ``consider'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (H), by inserting ``, including 
                the appropriateness of the imposition of prudential 
                standards in addition to or as opposed to other forms 
                of regulation'' before the semicolon at the end;
                    (C) in subparagraph (J), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (D) by redesignating subparagraph (K) as 
                subparagraph (L); and
                    (E) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the 
                following:
                    ``(K) actions taken by the primary financial 
                regulatory agency pursuant to subsection (e)(1)(C); 
                and'';
            (3) by striking subsections (d) and (e) and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(d) Annual Reevaluation and Rescission.--
            ``(1) Annual reevaluation.--Not less frequently than 
        annually, except with respect to subparagraph (E), the Council 
        shall reevaluate each final determination made under subsection 
        (a) or (b) with respect to a nonbank financial company 
        supervised by the Board of Governors and shall--
                    ``(A) provide a written notice to the nonbank 
                financial company being reevaluated;
                    ``(B) afford the nonbank financial company an 
                opportunity to submit a plan, within such time as the 
                Council determines to be appropriate (but which shall 
                be not earlier than 30 days after the date of receipt 
                by the nonbank financial company of the notice provided 
                under subparagraph (A)), to modify the business, 
                structure, or operations of the nonbank financial 
                company;
                    ``(C) afford the nonbank financial company an 
                opportunity to submit written materials in addition to, 
                or separate from, the plan described in subparagraph 
                (B), within such time as the Council determines to be 
                appropriate (but which shall be not earlier than 30 
                days after the date of receipt by the nonbank financial 
                company of the notice provided under subparagraph (A)), 
                to contest the determination, including materials 
                concerning whether, in the view of the nonbank 
                financial company, the material financial distress at 
                the nonbank financial company, or the nature, scope, 
                size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix 
                of the activities of the nonbank financial company, 
                could pose a threat to the financial stability of the 
                United States;
                    ``(D) provide an opportunity for the nonbank 
                financial company to meet with representatives of the 
                Council to present the information described in 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C); and
                    ``(E) not less than once every 5 years and prior to 
                a vote under paragraph (3)(A)(ii)--
                            ``(i) not earlier than 30 days after the 
                        date of receipt of any notice under 
                        subparagraph (A), provide the nonbank financial 
                        company with an opportunity to request, in 
                        writing, a hearing before the Council to 
                        contest its final determination under 
                        subsection (a) or (b); and
                            ``(ii) if the Council receives a timely 
                        request under clause (i), fix a time (not 
                        earlier than 30 days after the date of receipt 
                        of the request) and place at which the nonbank 
                        financial company may appear, personally or 
                        through counsel, to, at the discretion of the 
                        nonbank financial company, provide oral 
                        testimony and oral argument to the members of 
                        the Council, with not fewer than \2/3\ of the 
                        voting members of the Council, including the 
                        Chairperson, in attendance.
            ``(2) Company plan.--If a nonbank financial company submits 
        a plan in accordance with paragraph (1)(B), the Council shall--
                    ``(A) consider whether the plan, if implemented, 
                would result in the nonbank financial company no longer 
                meeting the criteria for a final determination under 
                subsection (a) or (b); and
                    ``(B) provide the nonbank financial company with--
                            ``(i) analysis of whether and to what 
                        extent the plan addresses the potential threat 
                        posed by the nonbank financial company to the 
                        financial stability of the United States;
                            ``(ii) an opportunity to meet with 
                        representatives of the Council to discuss the 
                        analysis provided under clause (i); and
                            ``(iii) an opportunity to revise the plan, 
                        after discussions with representatives of the 
                        Council.
            ``(3) Voting and explanation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--After evaluating the materials 
                and information provided by a nonbank financial company 
                under paragraph (1) and fulfilling the requirements of 
                paragraph (2), and not later than 180 days after the 
                date of receipt by the nonbank financial company of the 
                notice provided under paragraph (1)(A), the Council 
                shall, on a nondelegable basis and by a vote of not 
                fewer than \2/3\ of the voting members then serving, 
                including an affirmative vote by the Chairperson--
                            ``(i) except as otherwise provided in 
                        clause (ii), determine whether the nonbank 
                        financial company no longer meets the criteria 
                        for a final determination under subsection (a) 
                        or (b), in which case the Council shall rescind 
                        such determination; and
                            ``(ii) not less than once every 5 years, 
                        and following a hearing held under paragraph 
                        (1)(E)(ii), determine whether to renew a final 
                        determination under subsection (a) or (b).
                    ``(B) Notice of final determination.--If the 
                Council does not vote to rescind a final determination 
                under subparagraph (A)(i) or votes to renew a final 
                determination under subparagraph (A)(ii), the Council 
                shall provide a notice to the nonbank financial company 
                and the primary financial regulatory agency of the 
                nonbank financial company with the reasons for the 
                decision by the Council, which notice shall address 
                with specificity--
                            ``(i) any changes to the basis for the 
                        final determination decision made under 
                        subsection (a) or (b) since the date on which 
                        the final determination under subsection (a) or 
                        (b) was made, including any changes to the 
                        information provided to the nonbank financial 
                        company under--
                                    ``(I) subsection (e)(2)(C)(i)(IV);
                                    ``(II) this clause, in prior years; 
                                or
                                    ``(III) subparagraph (D);
                            ``(ii) any plan submitted by the nonbank 
                        financial company and considered by the Council 
                        under paragraph (2), and shall, at a minimum, 
                        include--
                                    ``(I) a detailed analysis of 
                                whether and to what extent successful 
                                implementation of the plan could result 
                                in the nonbank financial company no 
                                longer meeting the criteria for a final 
                                determination under subsection (a) or 
                                (b); and
                                    ``(II) a detailed explanation of 
                                why, if the plan were implemented, the 
                                nonbank financial company would still 
                                meet the criteria for a final 
                                determination under subsection (a) or 
                                (b), if the Council, during its 
                                consideration of the plan under 
                                paragraph (2), concluded that the 
                                nonbank financial company would still 
                                meet those criteria if the plan were 
                                implemented;
                            ``(iii) aspects of the business, 
                        operations, or structure, including the nature, 
                        scope, size, scale, concentration, 
                        interconnectedness, or mix of the activities, 
                        of the nonbank financial company that the 
                        Council believes could pose a threat to the 
                        financial stability of the United States, 
                        including an assessment by the Council of the 
                        probability and magnitude of the threat; and
                            ``(iv) an explanation of actions the 
                        nonbank financial company could take in order 
                        for the Council to rescind the determination.
                    ``(C) No final determination.--If the Council votes 
                to rescind a final determination under subparagraph 
                (A)(i) or does not vote to renew a final determination 
                under subparagraph (A)(ii), the existing final 
                determination under subsection (a) or (b) shall be 
                rescinded and the Council shall inform the nonbank 
                financial company in writing.
                    ``(D) Explanation for certain companies.--With 
                respect to a reevaluation under this subsection in 
                which the final determination under subsection (a) or 
                (b) being reevaluated was made before the date of 
                enactment of this subparagraph, the Council, as part of 
                such reevaluation, shall provide a statement that--
                            ``(i) explains with specificity the basis 
                        for such determination; and
                            ``(ii) includes the analysis required under 
                        subsection (e)(2)(C)(i)(IV).
                    ``(E) Voting threshold for rescission of 
                determination.--Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the 
                Council may, at any time, on a nondelegable basis and 
                by a vote of not fewer than \2/3\ of the voting members 
                then serving, including an affirmative vote by the 
                Chairperson, determine that a nonbank financial company 
                no longer meets the criteria for a final determination 
                under subsection (a) or (b), in which case the Council 
                shall rescind the final determination.
    ``(e) Requirements for Proposed Determination, Notice and 
Opportunity for Hearing, and Final Determination.--
            ``(1) In general.--Prior to making a final determination 
        under subsection (a) or (b) with respect to a nonbank financial 
        company, the Council must--
                    ``(A) provide the nonbank financial company and its 
                primary financial regulatory agency with a notice that 
                the nonbank financial company is being evaluated, which 
                notice shall, at minimum--
                            ``(i) include any quantitative analysis 
                        used by the Council as part of its evaluation;
                            ``(ii) identify with specificity any 
                        factors that the Council has considered 
                        pursuant to subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2) 
                        relating to the nonbank financial company that 
                        could cause the nonbank financial company to be 
                        subject to a final determination under 
                        subsection (a) or (b); and
                            ``(iii) include an explanation of how each 
                        factor identified in clause (ii) relates to the 
                        potential threat posed by the nonbank financial 
                        company to the financial stability of the 
                        United States;
                    ``(B) provide the nonbank financial company an 
                opportunity, not earlier than 30 days after the date of 
                receipt by the nonbank financial company of the notice 
                under subparagraph (A), to meet with representatives of 
                the Council, including to discuss the notice and any 
                analysis and factors considered by the Council;
                    ``(C) provide the primary financial regulatory 
                agency of the nonbank financial company with not less 
                than 180 days from the date of receipt of the notice in 
                subparagraph (A) to--
                            ``(i) provide a written response to the 
                        Council that includes an assessment of--
                                    ``(I) the factors identified 
                                pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii);
                                    ``(II) the explanation provided 
                                pursuant to subparagraph (A)(iii); and
                                    ``(III) the degree to which the 
                                potential threat to the financial 
                                stability of the United States is 
                                currently addressed or could be 
                                addressed by existing or pending 
                                regulation or other regulatory action; 
                                and
                            ``(ii) issue proposed regulations or 
                        undertake other regulatory action to address--
                                    ``(I) the factors identified 
                                pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii), as 
                                applicable; and
                                    ``(II) the potential threat posed 
                                by the nonbank financial company to the 
                                financial stability of the United 
                                States;
                    ``(D) in the event that the primary financial 
                regulatory agency has provided a written response under 
                subparagraph (C)(i) or issued proposed regulations or 
                taken other regulatory actions under subparagraph 
                (C)(ii), find that--
                            ``(i) taking into account the written 
                        response by the primary financial regulatory 
                        agency under subparagraph (C)(i), the nonbank 
                        financial company merits a proposed 
                        determination under subparagraph (E); and
                            ``(ii) the primary financial regulatory 
                        agency has not proposed regulations or taken 
                        other regulatory actions after receipt of the 
                        notice under subparagraph (A) that sufficiently 
                        address the factors identified pursuant to 
                        subparagraph (A)(ii), as applicable, and the 
                        potential threat posed by the nonbank financial 
                        company to the financial stability of the 
                        United States;
                    ``(E) after fulfilling the requirements of 
                subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D), on a nondelegable 
                basis and by a vote of not fewer than \2/3\ of the 
                voting members then serving, including an affirmative 
                vote by the Chairperson, propose to make a 
                determination under subsection (a) or (b) with respect 
                to the nonbank financial company; and
                    ``(F) subsequent to making a proposed determination 
                under subparagraph (E)--
                            ``(i) provide a notice to the nonbank 
                        financial company and its primary financial 
                        regulatory agency, which notice shall contain 
                        the basis for the proposed determination under 
                        subparagraph (E), including--
                                    ``(I) the information and 
                                explanation required under subparagraph 
                                (A), along with any updates to such 
                                information or explanation related to 
                                the proposed determination under 
                                subparagraph (E); and
                                    ``(II) an explanation and 
                                justification for any finding under 
                                subparagraph (D);
                            ``(ii) not later than 30 days after the 
                        date of receipt of any notice under clause (i), 
                        provide the nonbank financial company with an 
                        opportunity to request, in writing, a hearing 
                        before the Council to contest the proposed 
                        determination under subparagraph (E);
                            ``(iii) if the Council receives a timely 
                        request under clause (ii), fix a time (not 
                        earlier than 30 days after the date of receipt 
                        of the request) and place at which the nonbank 
                        financial company may appear, personally or 
                        through counsel, to, at the discretion of the 
                        nonbank financial company--
                                    ``(I) submit a plan to modify the 
                                business, structure, or operations of 
                                the nonbank financial company in order 
                                to address the factors and the 
                                potential threat posed by the nonbank 
                                financial company to the financial 
                                stability of the United States 
                                identified pursuant to clause (i)(I), 
                                as applicable;
                                    ``(II) submit written materials in 
                                addition to or separate from the plan 
                                described in subclause (I); and
                                    ``(III) provide oral testimony and 
                                oral argument to the members of the 
                                Council, with not fewer than \2/3\ of 
                                the voting members of the Council, 
                                including the Chairperson, in 
                                attendance; and
                            ``(iv) in the event a plan is submitted to 
                        the Council under clause (iii)(I)--
                                    ``(I) consider whether the plan, if 
                                implemented, would address the factors 
                                and the potential threat posed by the 
                                nonbank financial company to the 
                                financial stability of the United 
                                States identified pursuant to clause 
                                (i)(I), as applicable; and
                                    ``(II) provide the nonbank 
                                financial company with--
                                            ``(aa) analysis of whether 
                                        and to what extent the plan 
                                        addresses the factors and the 
                                        potential threat posed by the 
                                        nonbank financial company to 
                                        the financial stability of the 
                                        United States identified 
                                        pursuant to clause (i)(I), as 
                                        applicable;
                                            ``(bb) an opportunity to 
                                        meet with representatives of 
                                        the Council to discuss the 
                                        analysis provided under item 
                                        (aa); and
                                            ``(cc) an opportunity to 
                                        revise the plan, after 
                                        discussions with 
                                        representatives of the Council.
            ``(2) Final determination.--
                    ``(A) In general.--After fulfilling the 
                requirements of paragraph (1), and not later than 90 
                days after the date on which a hearing is held under 
                paragraph (1)(F)(iii), the Council may vote to make a 
                final determination under subsection (a) or (b). The 
                Council may delay the vote up to 1 additional year 
                after the conclusion of the 90-day period if 
                considering a plan under paragraph (1)(F)(iv)(I).
                    ``(B) Outcome of the vote.--If the Council votes on 
                a final determination under subsection (a) or (b), the 
                Council shall promptly inform the nonbank financial 
                company of the outcome of the vote in writing.
                    ``(C) Notice of final determination.--If the 
                Council votes to make a final determination under 
                subsection (a) or (b), the Council shall, not later 
                than 30 days after the date of the vote, provide a 
                notice to the nonbank financial company and its primary 
                financial regulatory agency, which notice shall 
                contain--
                            ``(i) the basis for the determination, 
                        including--
                                    ``(I) a detailed analysis of any 
                                plan submitted by the nonbank financial 
                                company and considered by the Council 
                                under paragraph (1)(F), if applicable, 
                                which analysis shall, at a minimum, 
                                include--
                                            ``(aa) whether and to what 
                                        extent successful 
                                        implementation of the plan 
                                        could address the factors, as 
                                        applicable, and the potential 
                                        threat posed by the nonbank 
                                        financial company to the 
                                        financial stability of the 
                                        United States identified 
                                        pursuant to paragraph 
                                        (1)(F)(i)(I); and
                                            ``(bb) a detailed 
                                        explanation of why the plan 
                                        would not address the factors 
                                        and the potential threat posed 
                                        by the nonbank financial 
                                        company to the financial 
                                        stability of the United States 
                                        identified pursuant to 
                                        paragraph (1)(F)(i)(I), if the 
                                        Council, during its 
                                        consideration of the plan under 
                                        subparagraph (1)(F)(iv)(I), 
                                        concluded that the plan would 
                                        not address such factors or 
                                        potential threat;
                                    ``(II) the reasons why the 
                                materials and other information 
                                submitted or provided by the nonbank 
                                financial company under subclauses (II) 
                                and (III) of paragraph (1)(F)(iii) did 
                                not address the potential threat posed 
                                by the nonbank financial company to the 
                                financial stability of the United 
                                States;
                                    ``(III) a justification for any 
                                finding under paragraph (1)(D);
                                    ``(IV) a detailed analysis of how 
                                any factors, including an explanation 
                                of how each factor relates to the 
                                potential threat posed by the nonbank 
                                financial company to the financial 
                                stability of the United States, that 
                                the Council considered pursuant to 
                                subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2) resulted in 
                                the final determination under 
                                subsection (a) or (b); and
                                    ``(V) specific aspects of the 
                                business, operations, or structure of 
                                the nonbank financial company, 
                                including the nature, scope, size, 
                                scale, concentration, 
                                interconnectedness, or mix of the 
                                activities of the nonbank financial 
                                company, that the Council believes 
                                could pose a threat to the financial 
                                stability of the United States, 
                                including an assessment by the Council 
                                of the probability and magnitude of the 
                                threat; and
                            ``(ii) an explanation of actions the 
                        nonbank financial company could take in order 
                        for the Council to rescind the 
                        determination.'';
            (4) in subsection (g), by striking ``before the Council 
        makes any'' and inserting ``from the outset of the 
        consideration of the nonbank financial company by the Council, 
        including before the Council makes any proposed determination 
        under subsection (e)(1)(E) or'';
            (5) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) by inserting ``or renews'' after ``makes''; and
                    (B) by striking ``(d)(2), (e)(3), or (f)(5)'' and 
                inserting ``(d)(3)(B) or (f)(5) or of renewal of a 
                final determination under subsection (e)(2)(C)''; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Public Disclosure Requirement.--The Council shall--
            ``(1) in each case that a nonbank financial company has 
        received a notice under subsection (e)(1)(A), and the nonbank 
        financial company has publicly disclosed that the nonbank 
        financial company is being reviewed by the Council, confirm 
        that the nonbank financial company is being reviewed, in 
        response to a request from a third party;
            ``(2) upon making a final determination under subsection 
        (a) or (b) or renewing a final determination under paragraph 
        (3)(A) of subsection (d), publicly provide a detailed written 
        explanation of the basis for the final determination with 
        sufficient detail to provide the public with an understanding 
        of the specific bases of the determination by the Council, 
        including any assumptions related thereof, subject to the 
        requirements of section 112(d)(5);
            ``(3) include, in the annual report required by section 
        112--
                    ``(A) the number of nonbank financial companies 
                from the previous year that received a notice under 
                subsection (e)(1)(A);
                    ``(B) the number of nonbank financial companies 
                from the previous year that were subject to a proposed 
                determination under subsection (e)(1)(E); and
                    ``(C) the number of nonbank financial companies 
                from the previous year that were subject to a final 
                determination under subsection (a) or (b); and
            ``(4) not earlier than 180 days after the date of enactment 
        of this subsection, publish in the Federal Register information 
        regarding the methodology the Council uses for calculating any 
        quantitative thresholds or other metrics used to consider the 
        factors listed in subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2).''.

SEC. 943. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    None of the amendments made by this subtitle shall be construed as 
limiting the emergency powers of the Financial Stability Oversight 
Council under section 113(f) of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 
U.S.C. 5323(f)).

Subtitle D--Improved Accountability and Transparency in the Regulation 
                              of Insurance

SEC. 951. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Act of March 9, 1945 (commonly 
known as the ``McCarran-Ferguson Act''; 59 Stat. 33, chapter 20; 15 
U.S.C. 1011 et seq.) remains the preferred approach with respect to 
regulating the business of insurance.

SEC. 952. ENSURING THE PROTECTION OF INSURANCE POLICYHOLDERS.

    (a) Source of Strength.--Section 38A of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o-1) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as 
        subsections (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Authority of State Insurance Regulator.--
            ``(1) In general.--The provisions of section 5(g) of the 
        Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1844(g)) shall 
        apply to a savings and loan holding company that is an 
        insurance company, an affiliate of an insured depository 
        institution that is an insurance company, and to any other 
        company that is an insurance company and that directly or 
        indirectly controls an insured depository institution, to the 
        same extent as the provisions of that section apply to a bank 
        holding company that is an insurance company.
            ``(2) Rule of construction.--Requiring a bank holding 
        company that is an insurance company, a savings and loan 
        holding company that is an insurance company, an affiliate of 
        an insured depository institution that is an insurance company, 
        or any other company that is an insurance company and that 
        directly or indirectly controls an insured depository 
        institution to serve as a source of financial strength under 
        this section shall be deemed an action of the Board that 
        requires a bank holding company to provide funds or other 
        assets to a subsidiary depository institution for purposes of 
        section 5(g) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
        1844(g)).''.
    (b) Liquidation Authority.--The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 203(e)(3) (12 U.S.C. 5383(e)(3)), by 
        inserting ``or rehabilitation'' after ``orderly liquidation'' 
        each place that term appears; and
            (2) in section 204(d)(4) (12 U.S.C. 5384(d)(4)), by 
        inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: ``, 
        except that, if the covered financial company or covered 
        subsidiary is an insurance company or a subsidiary of an 
        insurance company, the Corporation--
                    ``(A) shall promptly notify the State insurance 
                authority for the insurance company of the intention to 
                take such lien; and
                    ``(B) may only take such lien--
                            ``(i) to secure repayment of funds made 
                        available to such covered financial company or 
                        covered subsidiary; and
                            ``(ii) if the Corporation determines, after 
                        consultation with the State insurance 
                        authority, that such lien will not unduly 
                        impede or delay the liquidation or 
                        rehabilitation of the insurance company, or the 
                        recovery by its policyholders''.

SEC. 953. INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE CAPITAL STANDARDS ACCOUNTABILITY.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Secretary of the Treasury, the Board of Governors 
        of the Federal Reserve System, and the Director of the Federal 
        Insurance Office should support increasing transparency at any 
        global insurance or international standard-setting regulatory 
        or supervisory forum in which they participate, including 
        supporting and advocating for greater public observer access at 
        any such forum; and
            (2) to the extent that the Secretary of the Treasury, the 
        Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the 
        Director of the Federal Insurance Office take a position on an 
        insurance proposal by a global insurance or international 
        standard-setting regulatory or supervisory forum, the Board of 
        Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Director of the 
        Federal Insurance Office should achieve consensus positions 
        with State insurance regulators when they are participants 
        representing the United States in negotiations on insurance 
        issues before any international forum of financial regulators 
        or supervisors that considers insurance regulatory issues.
    (b) Insurance Policy Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established the Insurance 
        Policy Advisory Committee on International Capital Standards 
        and Other Insurance Issues at the Board of Governors of the 
        Federal Reserve System.
            (2) Membership.--The Committee established under paragraph 
        (1) shall be composed of not more than 21 members, all of whom 
        represent a diverse set of expert perspectives from the various 
        sectors of the United States insurance industry, including life 
        insurance, property and casualty insurance and reinsurance, 
        agents and brokers, academics, consumer advocates, or experts 
        on issues facing underserved insurance communities and 
        consumers.
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) Reports and testimony by secretary of the treasury and 
        chairman of the board of governors of the federal reserve 
        system.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury and 
                the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
                Reserve System, or their designees, shall submit an 
                annual report and provide annual testimony to the 
                Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the 
                House of Representatives on the efforts of the 
                Secretary of the Treasury, the Chairman of the Board of 
                Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and State 
                insurance regulators with respect to global insurance 
                or international standard-setting regulatory or 
                supervisory forums, including--
                            (i) a description of the insurance 
                        regulatory or supervisory standard-setting 
                        issues under discussion at any international 
                        insurance standard-setting bodies;
                            (ii) a description of the effects that 
                        proposals discussed at international insurance 
                        regulatory or supervisory forums of insurance 
                        could have on consumer and insurance markets in 
                        the United States;
                            (iii) a description of any position taken 
                        by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Chairman 
                        of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
                        Reserve System, and the Director of the Federal 
                        Insurance Office in international insurance 
                        discussions; and
                            (iv) a description of the efforts by the 
                        Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the 
                        Federal Insurance Office, and the Chairman of 
                        the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
                        System to increase transparency at any 
                        international standard-setting bodies with whom 
                        they participate, including efforts to provide 
                        additional public access to working groups and 
                        committees of such international insurance 
                        standard-setting bodies.
                    (B) Termination.--This paragraph shall cease to be 
                effective on December 31, 2018.
            (2) Reports and testimony by state insurance regulators.--A 
        State insurance regulator may provide testimony to Congress on 
        the issues described in paragraph (1)(A).
            (3) Joint report by the chairman of the federal reserve and 
        the director of the federal insurance office.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury, the 
                Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
                Reserve System, and the Director of the Federal 
                Insurance Office, in consultation with State insurance 
                regulators, shall complete a study on, and submit to 
                Congress a report on the results of the study, the 
                impact on consumers and markets in the United States 
                before supporting or consenting to the adoption of any 
                key elements in any international insurance proposal or 
                international insurance capital standard.
                    (B) Notice and comment.--
                            (i) Notice.--The Secretary of the Treasury, 
                        the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the 
                        Federal Reserve System, and the Director of the 
                        Federal Insurance Office shall provide notice 
                        before the date on which drafting the report 
                        described in subparagraph (A) is commenced and 
                        after the date on which the draft of the report 
                        is completed.
                            (ii) Opportunity for comment.--There shall 
                        be an opportunity for public comment for a 
                        period beginning on the date on which the 
                        report is submitted under subparagraph (A) and 
                        ending on the date that is 60 days after the 
                        date on which the report is submitted.
                    (C) Review by comptroller general.--The Secretary 
                of the Treasury, the Chairman of the Board of Governors 
                of the Federal Reserve System, and the Director of the 
                Federal Insurance Office shall submit to the 
                Comptroller General of the United States the report 
                described in subparagraph (A) for review.
            (4) Report on promoting transparency.--Not later than 180 
        days after the date of enactment of this title, the Chairman of 
        the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, or their designees, shall submit a 
        report and provide testimony to the Committee on Banking, 
        Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Financial Services of the House of Representatives on the 
        efforts of the Secretary of the Treasury and the Chairman of 
        the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to improve 
        transparency at any international insurance standard-setting 
        bodies in which they participate.

            Subtitle E--Improving the Federal Reserve System

SEC. 961. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

    Section 2B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 225b) is amended 
by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Quarterly Reports to Congress.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Federal Open Market Committee shall, 
        on a quarterly basis, and in such a manner that 1 report is 
        submitted concurrently with each semi-annual hearing required 
        by subsection (a), submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
        and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial 
        Services of the House of Representatives a report explaining 
        the policy decisions of the Committee over the prior quarter 
        and the basis for those decisions.
            ``(2) Contents.--The report described in paragraph (1) 
        shall include--
                    ``(A) a detailed analysis of the conduct of 
                monetary policy and economic developments and prospects 
                for the future, taking into account past and 
                prospective developments in--
                            ``(i) employment;
                            ``(ii) unemployment;
                            ``(iii) production;
                            ``(iv) investment;
                            ``(v) real income;
                            ``(vi) productivity;
                            ``(vii) exchange rates;
                            ``(viii) international trade and payments;
                            ``(ix) prices;
                            ``(x) inflation expectations;
                            ``(xi) credit conditions; and
                            ``(xii) interest rates;
                    ``(B) a description of any monetary policy rule or 
                rules used or considered by the Committee that provides 
                or provide the basis for monetary policy decisions, 
                including short-term interest rate targets set by the 
                Committee, open market operations authorized under 
                section 14, and interest rates established by the 
                Committee pursuant to section 19(b)(12), and such 
                description shall include, at a minimum, for each rule, 
                a mathematical formula that models how monetary policy 
                instruments will be adjusted based on changes in 
                quantitative inputs;
                    ``(C) a description of any additional strategy or 
                strategies, if any such exist, used by the Committee, 
                separate from or supplementary to any rule or rules 
                described in subparagraph (B), to affect monetary 
                policy;
                    ``(D) a detailed explanation of--
                            ``(i) any deviation in the rule or rules 
                        described in subparagraph (B) in the current 
                        report from any rule or rules described in 
                        subparagraph (B) in the most recent quarterly 
                        report; and
                            ``(ii) any deviation in the strategy or 
                        strategies described in subparagraph (C) in the 
                        current report from any strategy or strategies 
                        described in subparagraph (C) in the most 
                        recent quarterly report;
                    ``(E) a description of any instruments used to 
                execute monetary policy by employees of the Federal 
                Reserve System at the direction of the Committee, and 
                how such instruments have been used;
                    ``(F) a description of the outlook for monetary 
                policy over the short term, medium term, and long term; 
                and
                    ``(G) projections of inflation and economic growth 
                over the short term, medium term, and long term.
            ``(3) Dissent.--A member of the Committee described in 
        section 12A(a) may--
                    ``(A) dissent from the report submitted under 
                paragraph (1) in whole or in part;
                    ``(B) write a dissent expressing the views of the 
                member, which shall be included as part of the report 
                submitted to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
                Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
                    ``(C) sign a dissent written by another member of 
                the Committee to express support for views contained in 
                such dissent.''.

SEC. 962. TESTIMONY; VOTES; STAFF.

    (a) Testimony; Votes.--Section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (11), as redesignated by section 999F(v) 
        of this title, by inserting at the end the following: ``In the 
        event that no member of the Board is serving as Vice Chairman 
        for Supervision at the time such appearance is required, the 
        Chairman of the Board of Governors shall appear before each 
        Committee in the place of the Vice Chairman for Supervision.''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(12)(A) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
        System shall, on a nondelegable basis, vote on whether to issue 
        any civil money penalty assessment order or settle any other 
        enforcement action if the issuance of such order or settlement 
        of such action involves the payment of not less than $1,000,000 
        in compensation, penalties, fines, or other payments.
            ``(B) The results of the vote of each member of the Board 
        under subparagraph (A) shall promptly be made publicly 
        available on the website of the Board.''.
    (b) Delegation of Authorities; Staff.--Section 11 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (k), by inserting ``and except as 
        otherwise provided in section 10(12)(A),'' after ``credit 
        policies,''; and
            (2) in subsection (l), by inserting ``Of amounts made 
        available for employees of the Board of Governors under this 
        subsection, each member of the Board of Governors may employ 
        not more than 4 individuals, with such individuals selected by 
        such member and the salaries of such individuals set by such 
        member.'' after the period at the end.

SEC. 963. TRANSPARENCY AT THE FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE.

    Section 12A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 263) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Not later than 3 years after the date on which a meeting of 
the Committee is held, the Committee shall publish the transcript of 
the meeting.''.

SEC. 964. INTEREST RATES ON BALANCES MAINTAINED AT A FEDERAL RESERVE 
              BANK BY DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS.

    Section 19(b)(12)(A) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
461(b)(12)(A)) is amended by inserting ``established by the Federal 
Open Market Committee'' after ``rate or rates''.

SEC. 965. COMMISSION FOR RESTRUCTURING THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established an independent commission 
to be known as the ``Federal Reserve System Restructuring Commission'' 
(referred to in this section as the ``Commission'').
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall be composed of 7 
        members as follows:
                    (A) 2 members appointed by the Speaker of the House 
                of Representatives.
                    (B) 2 members appointed by the majority leader of 
                the Senate.
                    (C) 1 member appointed by the minority leader of 
                the House of Representatives.
                    (D) 1 member appointed by the minority leader of 
                the Senate.
                    (E) 1 member appointed by the President.
            (2) Chairman.--Once the members of the Commission have been 
        appointed, the members shall designate 1 of the members to be 
        Chairman of the Commission.
            (3) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Commission shall be 
        filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
    (c) Duties.--
            (1) Study.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission shall conduct a 
                study on whether it is appropriate to restructure the 
                Federal Reserve districts, including an analysis on 
                potential benefits and costs of restructuring.
                    (B) Considerations.--In determining whether such 
                restructuring is appropriate, the Commission shall 
                specifically consider the impact of restructuring with 
                respect to--
                            (i) maximizing operational effectiveness 
                        within the Federal Reserve System while 
                        minimizing operational costs;
                            (ii) maximizing the effectiveness of 
                        supervisory and regulatory functions while 
                        minimizing potential for regulatory capture; 
                        and
                            (iii) monetary policy decision-making.
                    (C) Proposals.--The Commission shall--
                            (i) consider various proposals to 
                        restructure the existing Federal Reserve 
                        districts, including proposals to--
                                    (I) increase the number of existing 
                                Federal Reserve districts, including a 
                                proposal to divide the Federal Reserve 
                                district in which the Federal Reserve 
                                Bank of San Francisco is contained into 
                                2 or more separate districts while 
                                retaining the existing structure for 
                                the remaining Federal Reserve 
                                districts;
                                    (II) decrease the number of 
                                existing Federal Reserve districts;
                                    (III) restructure the existing 
                                Federal Reserve districts without 
                                increasing or decreasing the number of 
                                existing Federal Reserve districts; and
                                    (IV) reassign specific functions 
                                and duties, including supervisory and 
                                regulatory functions, to different 
                                Federal Reserve banks within the 
                                Federal Reserve System, including 
                                functions and duties performed by the 
                                Board; and
                            (ii) determine which of the proposals 
                        considered under clause (i) are the optimal 
                        approaches to restructuring the existing 
                        Federal Reserve districts pursuant to 
                        subclauses (I), (II), (III), and (IV) of clause 
                        (i).
            (2) Recommendation.--The Commission shall, based on the 
        proposals considered under paragraph (1)(C), develop a 
        recommendation on the optimal organization of the Federal 
        Reserve System that--
                    (A) maximizes--
                            (i) the operational effectiveness within 
                        the Federal Reserve System while minimizing 
                        operational costs; and
                            (ii) the effectiveness of supervisory and 
                        regulatory functions while minimizing potential 
                        for regulatory capture; and
                    (B) takes into account the impact of restructuring 
                on monetary policy decision-making.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this title, the Commission shall submit to the 
        Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate 
        and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives, and also furnish copies to the President and 
        the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, a report 
        that includes--
                    (A) the recommendation described in paragraph (2);
                    (B) a description of the proposals considered under 
                paragraph (1)(C)(i);
                    (C) a description of the proposals determined to be 
                optimal under paragraph (1)(C)(ii);
                    (D) an analysis of the benefits and costs of each 
                of the proposals described in subparagraph (B), 
                including, with respect to each proposal, an analysis 
                of--
                            (i) the operational benefits and costs to 
                        the Federal Reserve System;
                            (ii) the impact on supervision of financial 
                        institutions and nonbank financial institutions 
                        supervised by the Federal Reserve banks; and
                            (iii) the impact on monetary policy 
                        decision-making;
                    (E) an analysis of--
                            (i) any specific benefits and costs 
                        resulting from the increase in total number of 
                        Federal Reserve districts; and
                            (ii) any specific benefits and costs 
                        resulting from the decrease in total number of 
                        Federal Reserve districts, including an 
                        evaluation of savings to the Federal Reserve 
                        System through streamlining and elimination of 
                        duplicated functions;
                    (F) a determination of--
                            (i) whether the benefits of restructuring 
                        the existing Federal Reserve districts without 
                        increasing or decreasing the number of existing 
                        Federal Reserve districts outweigh the costs;
                            (ii) whether the benefits of increasing or 
                        decreasing the number of existing Federal 
                        Reserve districts outweigh the costs;
                            (iii) whether the benefits of reassigning 
                        functions and duties to different Federal 
                        Reserve banks within the Federal Reserve System 
                        outweigh the costs; and
                            (iv) the optimal number of Federal Reserve 
                        districts in order for the Federal Reserve 
                        System to fulfill its statutory role in the 
                        most efficient and cost-effective manner; and
                    (G) a description of the methodology used by the 
                Commission to reach the conclusions for the report.
    (d) Powers of the Commission.--The Commission may lease space and 
acquire personal property to the extent funds are available.
    (e) Commission Personnel Matters.--
            (1) Compensation of members.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), each member of the Commission who is not an 
                officer or employee of the Federal Government shall be 
                compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of 
                the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of 
                the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, 
                United States Code, for each day (including travel 
                time) during which such member is engaged in the 
                performance of the duties of the Commission. All 
                members of the Commission who are officers or employees 
                of the United States shall serve without compensation 
                in addition to that received for their services as 
                officers or employees of the United States.
                    (B) Compensation of chairman.--The Chairman of the 
                Commission shall be compensated at a rate equal to the 
                daily equivalent of the minimum annual rate of basic 
                pay payable for level III of the Executive Schedule 
                under section 5314, of title 5, United States Code.
            (2) Travel expenses.--The members of the Commission shall 
        be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business 
        in the performance of services for the Commission.
            (3) Director and staff.--
                    (A) Director of staff.--The Commission shall 
                appoint a Director, who shall be paid at the rate of 
                basic pay payable for level IV of the Executive 
                Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
                Code.
                    (B) Staff.--
                            (i) In general.--Subject to clauses (ii) 
                        and (iii), the Director, with the approval of 
                        the Commission, may appoint and fix the pay of 
                        additional personnel.
                            (ii) Applicability.--The Director may make 
                        such appointments without regard to the 
                        provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
                        governing appointments in the competitive 
                        service, and any personnel so appointed may be 
                        paid without regard to the provisions of 
                        chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of 
                        that title relating to classification and 
                        General Schedule pay rates, except that an 
                        individual so appointed may not receive pay in 
                        excess of the annual rate of basic pay 
                        prescribed for level V of the Executive 
                        Schedule under section 5316 of that title.
                            (iii) Detail of government employees.--
                                    (I) In general.--Upon request of 
                                the Director, the head of any Federal 
                                department or agency, including the 
                                Comptroller General of the United 
                                States, may detail any of the personnel 
                                of that department or agency to the 
                                Commission to assist the Commission in 
                                carrying out its duties under this 
                                section.
                                    (II) Limitations.--
                                            (aa) Detail of employees 
                                        from federal reserve system.--
                                        Not more than \1/5\ of the 
                                        personnel employed by or 
                                        detailed to the Commission may 
                                        be on detail from the Federal 
                                        Reserve System.
                                            (bb) Detail of employees 
                                        from other federal agencies.--
                                        Not more than \1/5\ of the 
                                        personnel employed by or 
                                        detailed to the Commission may 
                                        be on detail from any Federal 
                                        department or agency other than 
                                        the Federal Reserve System.
                            (iv) Experts and consultants.--The 
                        Commission may procure by contract the 
                        temporary or intermittent services of experts 
                        or consultants pursuant to section 3109(b) of 
                        title 5, United States Code, at rates for 
                        individuals which do not to exceed the daily 
                        equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for 
                        a comparable position paid under the General 
                        Schedule.
                    (C) Rule of construction.--Any individual employed 
                by the Commission under this paragraph, including any 
                expert or consultant under contract pursuant to 
                subparagraph (B)(iv), shall be considered staff for the 
                duration of such employment of such individual for the 
                purposes of this section.
    (f) Prohibition Against Restricting Communications.--No person may 
restrict an employee of the Federal Reserve System from communicating 
with a member or staff of the Commission, and no person may take (or 
threaten to take) an unfavorable personnel action, or withhold (or 
threaten to withhold) a favorable personnel action, as a reprisal for 
such communication.
    (g) Confidential Information.--No member or staff of the Commission 
shall request, either in writing or verbally, that any employee of the 
Federal Reserve System provide--
            (1) nonpublic information or documents concerning or 
        related to monetary policy deliberations; or
            (2) confidential supervisory information.
    (h) Disclosure of Nonpublic Information.--Any member or staff of 
the Commission that obtains nonpublic information from the Federal 
Reserve System or any employee of the Federal Reserve System shall 
maintain the confidentiality of such information.
    (i) Audit.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall annually audit the financial transactions of the 
        Commission in accordance with the United States generally 
        accepted government auditing standards, as may be prescribed by 
        the Comptroller General of the United States.
            (2) Location of audit.--An audit under paragraph (1) shall 
        be conducted at any place where accounts of the Commission are 
        normally kept.
            (3) Access.--
                    (A) In general.--The representatives of the 
                Government Accountability Office shall have access, in 
                accordance with section 716(c) of title 31, United 
                States Code, to--
                            (i) the Chairman of the Commission, members 
                        of the Commission, and staff of the Commission; 
                        and
                            (ii) all books, accounts, documents, 
                        papers, records (including electronic records), 
                        reports, files, property, or other information 
                        belonging to or under the control of or used or 
                        employed by the Commission pertaining to its 
                        financial transactions and necessary to 
                        facilitate the audit.
                    (B) Verification of transactions.--Representatives 
                of the Government Accountability Office shall be 
                afforded full facilities for verifying transactions 
                with the balances or securities held by depositories, 
                fiscal agents, and custodians.
            (4) Custody of documents and property.--All books, 
        accounts, documents, papers, records, reports, files, property, 
        or other information described in paragraph (3)(A)(ii) shall 
        remain in possession and custody of the Commission.
            (5) Copies.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
        may make copies of any books, accounts, documents, papers, 
        records, reports, files, property, or other information 
        described in paragraph (3)(A)(ii) without cost to the 
        Comptroller General.
            (6) Services.--In conducting an audit under this 
        subsection, the Comptroller General of the United States may 
        employ by contract, without regard to section 3709 of the 
        Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 6101), professional services of 
        firms and organizations of certified public accountants for 
        temporary periods or for special purposes.
            (7) Reimbursement.--
                    (A) In general.--Upon the request of the 
                Comptroller General of the United States, the Chairman 
                of the Commission shall transfer to the Government 
                Accountability Office from funds made available to the 
                Commission the amount requested by the Comptroller 
                General to cover the full costs of any audit and report 
                conducted by the Comptroller General.
                    (B) Credit.--The Comptroller General of the United 
                States shall credit funds transferred under 
                subparagraph (A) to the account established for 
                salaries and expenses of the Government Accountability 
                Office, and such amount shall be available upon receipt 
                and without fiscal year limitation to cover the full 
                costs of the audit and report.
            (8) Report.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
        shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services 
        of the House of Representatives, and also furnish copies to the 
        President and the Commission, a report of each annual audit 
        conducted under this subsection, including--
                    (A) the scope of the audit;
                    (B) the statement of assets and liabilities and 
                surplus or deficit;
                    (C) the statement of income and expenses;
                    (D) the statement of sources and application of 
                funds;
                    (E) such comments and information as the 
                Comptroller General determines is necessary to inform 
                the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of 
                the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of 
                the House of Representatives of the financial 
                operations and condition of the Commission; and
                    (F) such recommendations that the Comptroller 
                General may deem advisable.
    (j) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate not later than on 
December 31, 2020.
    (k) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning on the first quarter of the 
        fiscal year after the date on which the Commission is 
        established, and in each quarter of a fiscal year thereafter, 
        the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall 
        transfer to the Commission, from the combined earnings of the 
        Federal Reserve System, the amount determined by the Chairman 
        of the Commission to be reasonably necessary to carry out the 
        authorities of the Commission pursuant to this section, taking 
        into account such other sums made available to the Commission 
        in preceding quarters, to be available without fiscal year 
        limitation and not subject to appropriation.
            (2) Reviewability.--Notwithstanding any other provision in 
        this section, the funds derived from the Federal Reserve System 
        pursuant to this subsection shall not be subject to review by 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate or the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    (l) Federal Reserve Districts.--The first undesignated paragraph of 
section 2 of the Federal Reserve Act (38 Stat. 251, chapter 6) is 
amended by inserting ``, except as otherwise provided under section 965 
of the Financial Regulatory Improvement Act of 2015'' after 
``organized''.

SEC. 966. GAO STUDY ON SUPERVISION.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study on the effectiveness of supervision by the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System and each Federal Reserve bank 
of--
            (1) bank holding companies subject to the requirements of 
        section 165 of the Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 
        5365) on the date of enactment of this title; and
            (2) nonbank financial companies subject to a determination 
        under subsection (a) or (b) of section 113 of the Financial 
        Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5323).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
of this title, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
Representatives a report based on the study required under subsection 
(a) that includes--
            (1) an analysis of--
                    (A) the effectiveness of the delegation of 
                functions by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
                Reserve System in accordance with section 11(k) of the 
                Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(k));
                    (B) the effectiveness of supervision delegated to 
                each Federal Reserve bank by the Board of Governors of 
                the Federal Reserve System, including whether and how 
                the relationships between each Federal Reserve bank and 
                the institutions that each Federal Reserve bank 
                supervises impact the effectiveness of supervision;
                    (C) the propriety of the relationship between each 
                Federal Reserve bank and the institutions that each 
                Federal Reserve bank supervises, including any 
                potential conflicts of interest, and whether and how 
                such relationships impact the effectiveness of 
                supervision;
                    (D) the role played by the Large Institution 
                Supervision Coordinating Committee of the Board of 
                Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the 
                interactions between the Committee and the Federal 
                Reserve banks, and the effectiveness of the Committee; 
                and
                    (E) any other factors that could negatively 
                influence the effectiveness of supervision by any 
                Federal Reserve bank or the Board of Governors of the 
                Federal Reserve System;
            (2) an evaluation of whether additional steps should be 
        taken by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
        each Federal Reserve bank, or Congress to improve the 
        effectiveness of supervision at each Federal Reserve bank and 
        the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; and
            (3) recommendations to improve the effectiveness of 
        supervision at each Federal Reserve bank and the Board of 
        Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
    (c) Evaluation.--As part of the study required under subsection 
(a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall separately 
evaluate the effectiveness of supervision at the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System and at each Federal Reserve bank.

SEC. 967. FEDERAL RESERVE STUDY ON NONBANK SUPERVISION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this title, and not less than once every 2 years 
thereafter, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall 
submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
Representatives a report regarding how the Board plans to supervise and 
regulate nonbank financial companies subject to a determination under 
subsection (a) or (b) of section 113 of the Financial Stability Act of 
2010 (12 U.S.C. 5323) that includes, with respect to nonbank financial 
companies--
            (1) a specific supervisory and regulatory framework, 
        differentiating among nonbank financial companies on an 
        individual basis or by category, taking into consideration the 
        capital structure, riskiness, complexity (including the 
        financial activities of any subsidiaries), size, and any other 
        risk-related factors that the Board of Governors of the Federal 
        Reserve System determines is appropriate;
            (2) an assessment of the relevant experience and expertise 
        of staff of the Federal Reserve System assigned to such 
        supervision and regulation;
            (3) a description of--
                    (A) the method for evaluating safety and soundness;
                    (B) the frequency of examinations;
                    (C) the criteria that will be examined; and
                    (D) coordination with Federal and State regulators, 
                including efforts to minimize duplicative supervision 
                and regulation, if appropriate; and
            (4) an explanation of how the approach to supervision and 
        regulation of nonbank financial companies differs from 
        supervision and regulation of bank holding companies and member 
        banks.
    (b) Sunset.--This section shall terminate on the date that is 10 
years after the date of enactment of this title.

SEC. 968. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK GOVERNANCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 4 of the Federal Reserve Act is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4) (12 U.S.C. 341)--
                    (A) by striking ``power--'' and inserting ``power, 
                except as provided in paragraph (25)--''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``except that the first vice 
                president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall 
                be appointed by the Class B and Class C directors of 
                the bank, with the approval of the Board of Governors 
                of the Federal Reserve System, for a term of 5 years,'' 
                after ``as the president,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(25) Selection of the president of the federal reserve 
        bank of new york.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
        section, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
        shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and 
        consent of the Senate, for terms of 5 years.
            ``(26) Testimony.--The president of the Federal Reserve 
        Bank of New York, on an annual basis, shall provide testimony 
        to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of enactment of this title and apply to 
appointments for the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
made on and after that effective date.

 Subtitle F--Improved Access to Capital and Tailored Regulation in the 
                           Financial Markets

SEC. 971. HOLDING COMPANY REGISTRATION THRESHOLD EQUALIZATION.

    The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 12(g) (15 U.S.C. 78l(g))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting ``, a savings 
                and loan holding company (as defined in section 10(a) 
                of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a))),'' 
                after ``is a bank''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``, a savings 
                and loan holding company (as defined in section 10(a) 
                of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a))),'' 
                after ``case of a bank''; and
            (2) in section 15(d)(1) (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)(1)), by striking 
        ``case of bank'' and inserting ``case of a bank, a savings and 
        loan holding company (as defined in section 10(a) of the Home 
        Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a))),''.

SEC. 972. INCREASED THRESHOLD FOR DISCLOSURES RELATING TO COMPENSATORY 
              BENEFIT PLANS.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this title, 
the Securities and Exchange Commission shall revise section 230.701(e) 
of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, to increase from $5,000,000 
to $10,000,000 the aggregate sales price or amount of securities sold 
during any consecutive 12-month period in excess of which the issuer is 
required under such section to deliver an additional disclosure to 
investors. The Securities and Exchange Commission shall index for 
inflation such aggregate sales price or amount every 5 years to reflect 
the change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers 
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, rounding to the nearest 
$1,000,000.

SEC. 973. REPEAL OF INDEMNIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Derivatives Clearing Organizations.--Section 5b(k)(5) of the 
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1(k)(5)) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(5) Confidentiality agreement.--Before the Commission may 
        share information with any entity described in paragraph (4), 
        the Commission shall receive a written agreement from each 
        entity stating that the entity shall abide by the 
        confidentiality requirements described in section 8 relating to 
        the information on swap transactions that is provided.''.
    (b) Swap Data Repositories.--Section 21(d) of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 24a(d)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Confidentiality Agreement.--Before the swap data repository 
may share information with any entity described in subsection (c)(7), 
the swap data repository shall receive a written agreement from each 
entity stating that the entity shall abide by the confidentiality 
requirements described in section 8 relating to the information on swap 
transactions that is provided.''.
    (c) Security-based Swap Data Repositories.--Section 13(n)(5) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(n)(5)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (G)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
                ``all'' and inserting ``security-based swap''; and
                    (B) in clause (v)--
                            (i) in subclause (II), by striking ``; 
                        and'' and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in subclause (III), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                                    ``(IV) other foreign 
                                authorities.''; and
            (2) by striking subparagraph (H) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(H) Confidentiality agreement.--Before the 
                security-based swap data repository may share 
                information with any entity described in subparagraph 
                (G), the security-based swap data repository shall 
                receive a written agreement from each entity stating 
                that the entity shall abide by the confidentiality 
                requirements described in section 24 relating to the 
                information on security-based swap transactions that is 
                provided.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if enacted as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-203).

SEC. 974. IMPROVING ACCESS TO CAPITAL FOR EMERGING GROWTH COMPANIES.

    Section 6(e)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77f(e)(1)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following: ``An issuer that was an 
emerging growth company at the time it submitted a confidential 
registration statement or, in lieu thereof, a publicly filed 
registration statement for review under this subsection but ceases to 
be an emerging growth company thereafter shall continue to be treated 
as an emerging growth company for the purposes of this subsection 
through the earlier of the date on which the issuer consummates its 
initial public offering pursuant to such registration statement or the 
end of the 1-year period beginning on the date on which the company 
ceases to be an emerging growth company.''.

Subtitle G--Taxpayer Protections and Market Access for Mortgage Finance

SEC. 981. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``Agency'' means the Federal Housing 
        Finance Agency.
            (2) Back-end risk sharing.--The term ``back-end risk 
        sharing'' means any risk-sharing transaction that allows an 
        enterprise to share single-family mortgage credit risk that is 
        on the balance sheet of the enterprise with the private sector.
            (3) Board of directors.--The term ``Board of Directors'' 
        means the Board of Directors established under section 
        985(c)(1).
            (4) Common securitization solutions.--The term ``Common 
        Securitization Solutions'' or ``CSS'' means Common 
        Securitization Solutions, LLC, the joint venture formed by the 
        enterprises in October 2013, or any successor to Common 
        Securitization Solutions, LLC, that is a joint venture of the 
        enterprises.
            (5) Contractual and disclosure framework.--The term 
        ``contractual and disclosure framework'' means a contractual 
        and disclosure framework for securitization of mortgage loans 
        by an entity other than an enterprise.
            (6) Enterprise.--The term ``enterprise'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 1303 of the Federal Housing 
        Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 
        U.S.C. 4502).
            (7) First loss position; front-end risk sharing; risk-
        sharing transaction.--The terms ``first loss position'', 
        ``front-end risk sharing'', and ``risk-sharing transaction'' 
        have the meanings given those terms in section 1328(a) of the 
        Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act 
        of 1992, as added by section 986(b)(1).
            (8) Guarantee fee.--The term ``guarantee fee''--
                    (A) means a fee in connection with any guarantee of 
                the timely payment of principal and interest on 
                securities, notes, and other obligations based on or 
                backed by mortgages on residential real properties 
                designed principally for occupancy of from 1 to 4 
                families; and
                    (B) includes--
                            (i) the guaranty fee charged by the Federal 
                        National Mortgage Association with respect to 
                        mortgage-backed securities; and
                            (ii) the management and guarantee fee 
                        charged by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
                        Corporation with respect to participation 
                        certificates.
            (9) Platform.--The term ``Platform'' means the 
        securitization platform first described by the paper issued by 
        the Agency on October 4, 2012 entitled ``Building a New 
        Infrastructure for the Secondary Mortgage Market'', and updated 
        in subsequent documents released by the Agency, including 
        annual strategic plans for the conservatorship of the 
        enterprises and annual conservatorship scorecards.
            (10) Private successor.--The term ``private successor'' 
        means the private, nonprofit entity referred to in section 
        985(g) to which CSS transitions the Platform and the 
        contractual and disclosure framework, including any associated 
        intellectual property, technology, systems, and infrastructure, 
        in accordance with this title.
            (11) Second loss position.--The term ``second loss 
        position'' means, with respect to a risk-sharing transaction, 
        the position to which any credit losses on a security resulting 
        from the nonperformance of underlying mortgage loans will 
        accrue and be absorbed after a first loss position, to the full 
        extent of a holder's interest in such position.
            (12) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Treasury.
            (13) Senior preferred stock purchase agreement.--The term 
        ``Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement'' means--
                    (A) the Amended and Restated Senior Preferred Stock 
                Purchase Agreement, dated September 26, 2008, as such 
                Agreement has been amended on May 6, 2009, December 24, 
                2009, and August 17, 2012, respectively, and as such 
                Agreement may be further amended and restated, entered 
                into between the Department of the Treasury and each 
                enterprise, as applicable; and
                    (B) any provision of any certificate in connection 
                with such Agreement creating or designating the terms, 
                powers, preferences, privileges, limitations, or any 
                other conditions of the Variable Liquidation Preference 
                Senior Preferred Stock of an enterprise issued or sold 
                pursuant to such Agreement.

SEC. 982. PROHIBITING THE USE OF GUARANTEE FEES AS AN OFFSET.

    (a) In General.--In the Senate and the House of Representatives, 
for purposes of determining budgetary impacts to evaluate points of 
order under the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, any previous budget 
resolution, and any subsequent budget resolution, provisions contained 
in any bill, resolution, amendment, motion, or conference report that 
increase, or extend the increase of, any guarantee fee of an enterprise 
shall not be scored with respect to the level of budget authority, 
outlays, or revenues contained in such legislation.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to any legislation that--
            (1) includes a specific instruction to the Secretary on the 
        sale, transfer, relinquishment, liquidation, divestiture, or 
        other disposition of senior preferred stock acquired pursuant 
        to the Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement; and
            (2) provides for an increase, or extension of an increase, 
        of any guarantee fee of an enterprise to be used for the 
        purpose of financing reforms to the secondary mortgage market.

SEC. 983. LIMITATIONS ON SALE OF PREFERRED STOCK.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law or any provision of the 
Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, the Secretary may not sell, 
transfer, relinquish, liquidate, divest, or otherwise dispose of any 
outstanding shares of senior preferred stock acquired pursuant to the 
Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, until such time as Congress 
has passed and the President has signed into law legislation that 
includes a specific instruction to the Secretary regarding the sale, 
transfer, relinquishment, liquidation, divestiture, or other 
disposition of the senior preferred stock so acquired.

SEC. 984. SECONDARY MARKET ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this title, 
the Agency shall direct the enterprises and CSS to establish the 
Secondary Market Advisory Committee, which shall--
            (1) provide advice to the enterprises and CSS on decisions 
        relating to the development of secondary mortgage market 
        infrastructure; and
            (2) include private market participants representing 
        multiple aspects of the mortgage market, including mortgage 
        lenders, poolers of mortgage-backed securities, and investors 
        of mortgage-backed securities.

SEC. 985. SECURITIZATION PLATFORM.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) at the direction of the Agency, the enterprises have 
        established a joint venture called Common Securitization 
        Solutions intended to facilitate the issuance of mortgage-
        backed securities through the Platform;
            (2) at the direction of the Agency, the development of the 
        Platform is currently geared toward the issuance of mortgage-
        backed securities by the enterprises;
            (3) as soon as practicable, the capacity and functionality 
        of the Platform should be expanded to facilitate the issuance 
        of mortgage-backed securities by issuers other than the 
        enterprises, and CSS should undertake to develop the 
        contractual and disclosure framework for issuers other than the 
        enterprises;
            (4) the property of the enterprises, including intellectual 
        property, technology, systems, and infrastructure (including 
        technology, systems, and infrastructure developed by the 
        enterprises for the Platform), as well as any other legacy 
        systems, infrastructure, processes, and the Platform itself are 
        valuable assets of the enterprises; and
            (5) the enterprises should receive appropriate compensation 
        for the transfer of any such assets.
    (b) Reports to Congress.--
            (1) Annual report on development.--Not later than 1 year 
        after the date of enactment of this title, and every year 
        thereafter, the Agency shall submit to Congress a report on the 
        status of the development of the Platform and the contractual 
        and disclosure framework, which shall include--
                    (A) the projected timelines for--
                            (i) completing development of the Platform 
                        to support the securitization needs of the 
                        enterprises; and
                            (ii) completing development of the Platform 
                        and the contractual and disclosure framework to 
                        support the securitization needs of issuers 
                        other than the enterprises; and
                    (B) the projected budget for the development of the 
                Platform and the contractual and disclosure framework.
            (2) Report on transition.--Not later than 3 years after the 
        date of enactment of this title, the Agency shall develop a 
        plan, and submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services 
        of the House of Representatives a report on such plan, to 
        transition the Platform and the contractual and disclosure 
        framework from a joint venture owned by the enterprises into a 
        private, nonprofit entity that best facilitates a deep, liquid, 
        and resilient secondary mortgage market for mortgage-backed 
        securities.
    (c) Board of Directors.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 6 months after the date 
        of enactment of this title, the Agency shall direct the 
        enterprises and CSS to re-constitute a CSS Board of Directors 
        that meets the composition requirements set forth in paragraphs 
        (2) and (3).
            (2) Composition after 1 year.--Not later than 1 year after 
        the date of enactment of this title, as determined by the 
        Agency, the Board of Directors shall be comprised of 7 
        directors, 3 of whom--
                    (A) shall have demonstrated knowledge of, or 
                experience in, financial management, financial 
                services, risk management, information technology, or 
                housing finance; and
                    (B) are not simultaneously employed by an 
                enterprise or serving as a director of an enterprise.
            (3) Composition after 18 months.--Not later than 18 months 
        after the date of enactment of this title, as determined by the 
        Agency, the Board of Directors shall be comprised of 9 
        directors, 5 of whom--
                    (A) shall have demonstrated knowledge of, or 
                experience in, financial management, financial 
                services, risk management, information technology, or 
                housing finance; and
                    (B) are not simultaneously employed by an 
                enterprise or serving as a director of an enterprise.
    (d) Authorized and Prohibited Activities.--
            (1) Authorized activities.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this title, CSS shall--
                            (i) for an entity other than an enterprise, 
                        develop standards for--
                                    (I) becoming an approved issuer of 
                                securities issued through the Platform;
                                    (II) loans that may serve as 
                                collateral for securities issued 
                                through the Platform; and
                                    (III) originating, servicing, 
                                pooling, dispute resolution, 
                                disclosure, and securitizing 
                                residential mortgage loans that 
                                collateralize securities issued through 
                                the Platform; and
                            (ii) operate and maintain the Platform and 
                        establish fees for use of the Platform.
                    (B) Issuing securities by approved issuers.--Not 
                later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this 
                title--
                            (i) CSS shall facilitate the issuance of 
                        securities by any approved issuer other than an 
                        enterprise through the Platform; and
                            (ii) issuances of securities facilitated 
                        through the Platform shall not be limited to 
                        those made by the enterprises.
                    (C) Exception.--The Director may delay the 
                requirement under subparagraph (B) for 2 1-year periods 
                if the Director and the Secretary of the Treasury--
                            (i) determine that facilitation of such 
                        securities is not feasible within that period 
                        of time and could adversely impact the housing 
                        market; and
                            (ii) submit to Congress a report describing 
                        the justification for the determination made in 
                        clause (i).
            (2) Prohibited activities.--CSS may not, through the 
        Platform or otherwise--
                    (A) guarantee any mortgage loans or mortgage-backed 
                securities;
                    (B) assume or hold mortgage loan credit risk;
                    (C) purchase any mortgage loans for cash on a 
                single loan basis for the purpose of securitization;
                    (D) own or hold any mortgage loans or mortgage-
                backed securities for investment purposes;
                    (E) make or be a party to any representation and 
                warranty agreement on any mortgage loans; or
                    (F) take lender representation and warranty risk.
            (3) Authorized and prohibited activities of the private 
        successor.--All authorized and prohibited activities of CSS 
        under this subsection shall transfer to the private successor 
        at the time of transition under subsection (g), and shall 
        transfer to any future successor to the private successor at 
        the time of any such transition.
    (e) Regulation of CSS and the Private Successor.--The Agency shall 
have general regulatory authority over CSS, the private successor, and 
any successor to the private successor to ensure the safety and 
soundness of CSS and such successors
    (f) Funding by the FHFA and Transfer of Property.--
            (1) Transfer of funds from the enterprises.--At a time 
        established by the Agency, the Agency shall transfer to CSS 
        such funds from the enterprises as the Agency, after 
        consultation with the Board of Directors, determines may be 
        reasonably necessary for CSS to begin carrying out the 
        activities and operations of the Platform.
            (2) Transfer of property.--
                    (A) In general.--The Agency shall direct the 
                enterprises to transfer or sell to the Platform any 
                property, including intellectual property, technology, 
                systems, and infrastructure (including technology, 
                systems, and infrastructure developed by the 
                enterprises for the Platform), as well as any other 
                legacy systems, infrastructure, and processes that may 
                be necessary for the Platform to carry out the 
                functions and operations of the Platform.
                    (B) Contractual and other legal obligations.--As 
                may be necessary for the Agency and the enterprises to 
                comply with legal, contractual, or other obligations, 
                the Agency shall have the authority to require that any 
                transfer authorized under subparagraph (A) occurs as an 
                exchange for value, including through the provision of 
                appropriate compensation to the enterprises or other 
                entities responsible for creating, or contracting with, 
                the Platform.
    (g) Transition From CSS.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this title, the Agency shall oversee the 
        transition of ownership of the Platform and the contractual and 
        disclosure framework from the enterprises and CSS to a private, 
        nonprofit entity in accordance with the plan developed under 
        subsection (b)(2).
            (2) Board of directors.--The private successor shall 
        determine the structure of the Board of Directors following the 
        transition under paragraph (1).
            (3) Repayment of cost.--Not later than 10 years after the 
        date of the transition described in paragraph (1), the total 
        cost of the property transferred in accordance with subsection 
        (f)(2) at the time of the transition, as determined jointly by 
        the Agency and the Secretary, shall be repaid to the 
        enterprises.
    (h) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to prohibit the Agency or CSS from first developing a common 
securitization platform for use only by the enterprises, if all of the 
provisions in this Act relating to the development of the Platform and 
the contractual and disclosure framework are complied with in a timely 
manner.

SEC. 986. MANDATORY RISK SHARING.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) at the direction of the Agency, the enterprises have 
        executed a series of transactions in which the enterprises 
        share credit risk with the private sector;
            (2) in the risk-sharing transactions to date, the 
        enterprises have shared credit risk on pools of residential 
        mortgage loans that back securities on which an enterprise 
        either already guarantees or does not yet guarantee the timely 
        payment of principal and interest;
            (3) the risk that the enterprises have shared has been 
        either any loss suffered on the loans in the pool or any loss 
        in excess of some minimal level on loans in the pool;
            (4) to date, the vast majority of risk-sharing transactions 
        have involved either back-end risk sharing or the transfer of 
        the second loss position; and
            (5) the Agency should direct the enterprises to--
                    (A) engage in more front-end risk sharing in which 
                the first loss position is transferred; and
                    (B) retain data that can help inform policymakers 
                and the public about the impact to consumers, the 
                market, and the enterprises from such transactions.
    (b) Mandatory Risk Sharing.--
            (1) In general.--Subpart A of part 2 of subtitle A of the 
        Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act 
        of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4541 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
        end the following:

``SEC. 1328. MANDATORY RISK-SHARING TRANSACTIONS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) First loss position.--The term `first loss position' 
        means, with respect to a risk-sharing transaction, the position 
        to which any credit loss on a security resulting from the 
        nonperformance of underlying mortgage loans will accrue and be 
        absorbed, to the full extent of the holder's interest in such 
        position.
            ``(2) Front-end risk sharing.--The term `front-end risk 
        sharing' means any risk-sharing transaction that provides for 
        an enterprise to share credit risk on a pool of single-family 
        residential mortgage loans that back securities on which the 
        enterprise guarantees the timely payment of principal and 
        interest with the private sector before the enterprise provides 
        any such guarantee.
            ``(3) Risk-sharing transaction.--The term `risk-sharing 
        transaction' means any transaction that provides for an 
        enterprise to share credit risk on a pool of single-family 
        residential mortgage loans that back securities on which the 
        enterprise guarantees the timely payment of principal and 
        interest with the private sector.
    ``(b) Risk-sharing Transactions.--The Director shall require each 
enterprise to develop and undertake risk-sharing transactions in which 
the first loss position is transferred, as provided in subsection (c).
    ``(c) Required Percentage of Business.--
            ``(1) Requirement.--The Director shall require that each 
        enterprise engage in significant and increasing risk-sharing 
        transactions, including front-end risk sharing and risk-sharing 
        transactions in which the first loss position is transferred, 
        considering market conditions and the safety and soundness of 
        the enterprise.
            ``(2) Annual reporting requirement.--Not later than 1 year 
        after the date of enactment of this section, and every year 
        thereafter, the Agency shall submit to Congress a report, which 
        shall include--
                    ``(A) for the 12-month period preceding the date on 
                which the report is submitted, an assessment of the 
                market responses to the risk-sharing transactions of 
                each of the enterprises, in aggregate, and by credit 
                risk-sharing mechanism, including--
                            ``(i) impacts on borrower costs, yield 
                        spreads, and the economics of the operations of 
                        the enterprises; and
                            ``(ii) the type and characteristics of the 
                        underlying collateral and borrowers whose loans 
                        are involved in risk-sharing transactions; and
                    ``(B) a 5-year plan, which shall include, for each 
                of the 5 years following the year in which the report 
                is issued--
                            ``(i) the projected percentage of the 
                        unpaid principal balance of each enterprise 
                        covered under the credit risk-sharing program;
                            ``(ii) the projected percentage of new 
                        business for each enterprise subject to 
                        transactions in which the first loss position 
                        is transferred, including the types of deal 
                        structures;
                            ``(iii) the projected depth of front-end 
                        risk sharing per type of transaction for each 
                        enterprise; and
                            ``(iv) a description of the steps that the 
                        Agency intends to take to broaden the eligible 
                        investor base for credit risk-sharing 
                        programs.''.

 Subtitle H--Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
                         Technical Corrections

SEC. 991. TABLE OF CONTENTS; DEFINITIONAL CORRECTIONS.

    (a) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for the Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-203; 124 
Stat. 1376) is amended by striking the items relating to sections 407 
through 416 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 407. Exemption of and reporting by venture capital fund 
                            advisers.
``Sec. 408. Exemption of and reporting by certain private fund 
                            advisers.
``Sec. 409. Family offices.
``Sec. 410. State and Federal responsibilities; asset threshold for 
                            Federal registration of investment 
                            advisers.
``Sec. 411. Custody of client assets.
``Sec. 412. Comptroller General study on custody rule costs.
``Sec. 413. Adjusting the accredited investor standard.
``Sec. 414. Rule of construction relating to the Commodity Exchange 
                            Act.
``Sec. 415. GAO study and report on accredited investors.
``Sec. 416. GAO study on self-regulatory organization for private 
                            funds.
``Sec. 417. Commission study and report on short selling.
``Sec. 418. Qualified client standard.
``Sec. 419. Transition period.''.
    (b) Definitions.--Section 2 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5301) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``section 3'' and inserting 
                ``section 3(w)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``(12 U.S.C. 1813)'' and inserting 
                ``(12 U.S.C. 1813(w))'';
            (2) in paragraph (6), by striking ``1 et seq.'' and 
        inserting ``1a''; and
            (3) in paragraph (18)(A)--
                    (A) by striking ```bank holding company',''; and
                    (B) by inserting ```includes','' before 
                ```including',''.

SEC. 992. ANTITRUST SAVINGS CLAUSE CORRECTIONS.

    Section 6 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5303) is amended, in the second sentence--
            (1) by inserting ``(15 U.S.C. 12(a))'' after ``Clayton 
        Act''; and
            (2) by striking ``Act, to'' and inserting ``Act (15 U.S.C. 
        45) to''.

SEC. 993. TITLE I CORRECTIONS.

    The Financial Stability Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5311 et seq.) is 
amended--
            (1) in section 102(a)(6) (12 U.S.C. 5311(a)(6)), by 
        inserting ``(12 U.S.C. 1843(k))'' after ``of 1956'' each place 
        that term appears;
            (2) in section 111 (12 U.S.C. 5321)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(G), by striking 
                        ``Chairperson'' and inserting ``Chairman''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)(E), by striking 
                        ``such'' and inserting ``the''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(3), by striking ``that agency 
                or department head'' and inserting ``the head of that 
                member agency or department'';
            (3) in section 112 (12 U.S.C. 5322)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (D)--
                                    (I) by striking ``to monitor'' and 
                                inserting ``monitor''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``to advise'' and 
                                inserting ``advise'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (J)--
                                    (I) by striking ``that term is'' 
                                and inserting ``those terms are''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``and settlement'' 
                                and inserting ``or settlement''; and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (L), by striking 
                        ``may''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)(5)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``subsection and'' and inserting ``subtitle 
                        or''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking 
                        ``subsection and'' and inserting ``subtitle 
                        or'';
            (4) in section 154(c) (12 U.S.C. 5344(c))--
                    (A) by striking ``Center.--'' and all that follows 
                through ``The Research'' and inserting ``Center.--The 
                Research''; and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (H) 
                as paragraphs (1) through (8), respectively, and 
                adjusting the margins accordingly;
            (5) in section 155(a)(2) (12 U.S.C. 5345(a)(2)), by 
        striking ``(c),'' and inserting ``(c)'';
            (6) in section 164 (12 U.S.C. 5364), by striking 
        ``Institutions'' and inserting ``Institution'';
            (7) in section 167(b)(1)(B)(ii) (12 U.S.C. 
        5367(b)(1)(B)(ii)), by striking ``to ensure'' and inserting 
        ``ensure''; and
            (8) in section 171(b)(4)(D) (12 U.S.C. 5371(b)(4)(D)), by 
        adding a period at the end.

SEC. 994. TITLE II CORRECTIONS.

    Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 210 (12 U.S.C. 5390)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(D), by striking 
                        ``wind-up'' and inserting ``wind up''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (5)(C), by striking 
                        ``receiver seeking'' and inserting ``receiver) 
                        seeking'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``11,725'' 
                each place that term appears and inserting ``$11,725'';
                    (C) in subsection (m)(1)(B), by inserting ``of'' 
                before ``the Bankruptcy Code''; and
                    (D) in subsection (o)(1)(D)(i)(I), by striking 
                ``and (h)(5)(E)'' and inserting ``or (h)(5)(E)'';
            (2) in section 211(d)(1)(C) (12 U.S.C. 5391(d)(1)(C)), by 
        striking ``orderly liquidation plan under section 210(n)(14)'' 
        and inserting ``an orderly liquidation plan under section 
        210(n)(9)''; and
            (3) in section 215(a)(5) (124 Stat. 1518), by striking 
        ``amd'' and inserting ``and''.

SEC. 995. TITLE III CORRECTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Enhancing Financial Institution Safety and 
Soundness Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 327(b)(5) (12 U.S.C. 5437(b)(5)), by 
        striking ``in'' and inserting ``into'';
            (2) in section 333(b)(2) (124 Stat. 1539), by inserting 
        ``the second place that term appears'' before ``and 
        inserting''; and
            (3) in section 369(5) (124 Stat. 1559)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (D)(i)--
                            (i) in subclause (III), by redesignating 
                        items (aa), (bb), and (cc) as subitems (AA), 
                        (BB), and (CC), respectively, and adjusting the 
                        margins accordingly;
                            (ii) in subclause (IV), by redesignating 
                        items (aa) and (bb) as subitems (AA) and (BB), 
                        respectively, and adjusting the margins 
                        accordingly;
                            (iii) in subclause (V), by redesignating 
                        items (aa), (bb), and (cc) as subitems (AA), 
                        (BB), and (CC), respectively, and adjusting the 
                        margins accordingly; and
                            (iv) by redesignating subclauses (III), 
                        (IV), and (V) as items (bb), (cc), and (dd), 
                        respectively, and adjusting the margins 
                        accordingly;
                    (B) in subparagraph (F)--
                            (i) in clause (ii), by adding ``and'' at 
                        the end;
                            (ii) in clause (iii), by striking ``; and'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon; and
                            (iii) by striking clause (iv); and
                    (C) in subparagraph (G)(i), by inserting ``each 
                place such term appears'' before ``and inserting''.
    (b) Effective Dates.--
            (1) Section 333.--The amendment made by subsection (a)(2) 
        of this section shall take effect as if enacted as part of 
        subtitle C of the Enhancing Financial Institution Safety and 
        Soundness Act of 2010 (title III of Public Law 111-203; 124 
        Stat. 1538).
            (2) Section 369.--The amendments made by subsection (a)(3) 
        of this section shall take effect as if enacted as part of 
        subtitle E of the Enhancing Financial Institution Safety and 
        Soundness Act of 2010 (title III of Public Law 111-203; 124 
        Stat. 1546).

SEC. 996. TITLE IV CORRECTION.

    Section 414 of the Private Fund Investment Advisers Registration 
Act of 2010 (title IV of Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 1578) is amended 
in the section heading by striking ``commodities'' and inserting 
``commodity''.

SEC. 997. TITLE VI CORRECTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Bank and Savings Association Holding Company 
and Depository Institution Regulatory Improvements Act of 2010 (title 
VI of Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 1596) is amended--
            (1) in section 610 (124 Stat. 1611)--
                    (A) by striking subsection (b); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
                (b); and
            (2) in section 618(a) (12 U.S.C. 1850a(a))--
                    (A) in paragraph (4)(B)(i), by inserting ``of 
                Governors'' after ``Board''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (6), by inserting ``(12 U.S.C. 
                1841)'' after ``Act of 1956''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a)(1) of 
this section shall take effect as if enacted as part of section 610 of 
the Bank and Savings Association Holding Company and Depository 
Institution Regulatory Improvements Act of 2010 (title VI of Public Law 
111-203; 124 Stat. 1611).

SEC. 998. TITLE VII CORRECTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Wall Street Transparency and Accountability 
Act of 2010 (15 U.S.C. 8301 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 719(c)(1)(B) (15 U.S.C. 8307(c)(1)(B)), by 
        adding a period at the end;
            (2) in section 723(a)(1)(B) (124 Stat. 1675), by inserting 
        ``, as added by section 107 of the Commodity Futures 
        Modernization Act of 2000 (Appendix E of Public Law 106-554; 
        114 Stat. 2763A-382),'' after ``subsection (i)'';
            (3) in section 724(a) (124 Stat. 1682), by striking 
        ``adding at the end'' and inserting ``inserting after 
        subsection (e)'';
            (4) in section 734(b)(1) (124 Stat. 1718), by striking ``is 
        amended'' and all that follows through ``(B) in'' and inserting 
        ``is amended in'';
            (5) in section 741(b)(10) (124 Stat. 1732), by striking 
        ``1a(19)(A)(iv)(II)'' each place that term appears and 
        inserting ``1a(18)(A)(iv)(II)''; and
            (6) in section 749 (124 Stat. 1746)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``adding at 
                the end'' and inserting ``inserting after subsection 
                (f)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (h)(1)(B), by inserting ``the 
                second place that term appears'' before the semicolon.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by paragraphs (3), (4), 
(5), and (6) of subsection (a) shall take effect as if enacted as part 
of part II of subtitle A of the Wall Street Transparency and 
Accountability Act of 2010 (title VII of Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 
1658).

SEC. 999. TITLE VIII CORRECTIONS.

    The Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of 2010 (12 
U.S.C. 5461 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 805(a)(2)(E) (12 U.S.C. 5464(a)(2)(E)), by 
        striking the quotation marks at the end;
            (2) in section 806 (12 U.S.C. 5465)--
                    (A) in subsection (b), in the first sentence, by 
                striking ``(2)) after'' and inserting ``(2))) after''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection (e)(1)(A)--
                            (i) by striking ``advance notice'' and 
                        inserting ``advance''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``each Supervisory 
                        Agency'' and inserting ``its Supervisory 
                        Agency'';
            (3) in section 807 (12 U.S.C. 5466)--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(1), by adding a period at the 
                end; and
                    (B) in subsection (f)(2), by inserting a comma 
                after ``under'' the second place that term appears;
            (4) in section 808(b) (12 U.S.C. 5467(b)), by inserting a 
        comma after ``under'' the third place that term appears; and
            (5) in section 813 (12 U.S.C. 5472), in the matter 
        preceding paragraph (1), by inserting ``that includes'' after 
        ``Representatives''.

SEC. 999A. TITLE IX CORRECTIONS.

    Section 939(h)(1) of the Investor Protection and Securities Reform 
Act of 2010 (title IX of Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 1887) is 
amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
            (1) by inserting ``The'' before ``Commission''; and
            (2) by striking ``feasability'' and inserting 
        ``feasibility''.

SEC. 999B. TITLE X CORRECTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 
U.S.C. 5481 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 1002(12)(G) (12 U.S.C. 5481(12)(G)), by 
        striking ``Home Owners'' and inserting ``Homeowners'';
            (2) in section 1013(a)(1)(C) (12 U.S.C. 5493(a)(1)(C)), by 
        striking ``section 11(1) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
        248(1))'' and inserting ``subsection (l) of section 11 of the 
        Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(l)'';
            (3) in section 1017(a)(5) (12 U.S.C. 5497(a)(5))--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), in the last sentence by 
                striking ``716(c) of title 31, United States Code'' and 
                inserting ``716 of title 31, United States Code''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``section 3709 
                of the Revised Statutes of the United States (41 U.S.C. 
                5)'' and inserting ``section 6101 of title 41, United 
                States Code'';
            (4) in section 1022(c)(9)(B) (12 U.S.C. 5512(c)(9)(B)), by 
        striking ``1978,'' and inserting ``1978'';
            (5) in section 1025 (12 U.S.C. 5515)--
                    (A) in subsections (b), (c), and (d)--
                            (i) by inserting ``covered'' before 
                        ``persons'' each place that term appears; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``covered'' before 
                        ``person described in subsection (a)'' each 
                        place that term appears;
                    (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``12 U.S.C. 
                1867(c)'' and inserting ``(12 U.S.C. 1867(c))''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e)(4)(F), by striking ``212 of 
                the Federal Credit Union Act (112 U.S.C. 1790a)'' and 
                inserting ``216 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 
                U.S.C. 1790d)'';
            (6) in section 1027(d)(1)(B) (12 U.S.C. 5517(d)(1)(B)), by 
        inserting a comma after ``(A)'';
            (7) in section 1029(d) (12 U.S.C. 5519(d)), by striking the 
        period after ``Commission Act'';
            (8) in section 1061 (12 U.S.C. 5581)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(7)--
                            (i) by striking ``Secretary of the 
                        Department of Housing and Urban Development'' 
                        each place that term appears and inserting 
                        ``Department of Housing and Urban 
                        Development''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``(12 
                        U.S.C. 5102 et seq.)'' and inserting ``(12 
                        U.S.C. 5101 et seq.)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(2)(A), by striking 
                ``procedures in'' and inserting ``procedures'';
            (9) in section 1063 (12 U.S.C. 5583)--
                    (A) in subsection (f)(1)(B), by striking ``that''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection (g)(1)(A)--
                            (i) by striking ``(12 U.S.C. 5102 et 
                        seq.)'' and inserting ``(12 U.S.C. 5101 et 
                        seq.)''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``seq)'' and inserting 
                        ``seq.)'';
            (10) in section 1064(i)(1)(A)(iii) (12 U.S.C. 
        5584(i)(1)(A)(iii)), by inserting a period before ``If an'';
            (11) in section 1073(c)(2) (12 U.S.C. 5601(c)(2))--
                    (A) in the paragraph heading, by inserting ``and 
                education'' after ``financial literacy''; and
                    (B) by striking ``its duties'' and inserting 
                ``their duties'';
            (12) in section 1076(b)(1) (12 U.S.C. 5602(b)(1)), by 
        inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, the 
        Bureau may, after notice and opportunity for comment, prescribe 
        regulations'';
            (13) in section 1077(b)(4)(F) (124 Stat. 2076), by striking 
        ``associates'' and inserting ``associate's'';
            (14) in section 1084(1) (124 Stat. 2081)--
                    (A) by inserting ``paragraph (3) of section 903 (15 
                U.S.C. 1693a),'' before ``subsections (a) and (e) of 
                section 904'';
                    (B) by striking ``and in 918'' and inserting ``, 
                section 916(d) (15 U.S.C. 1693m(d)), section 918''; and
                    (C) by inserting a comma after ``2009)'';
            (15) in section 1089 (124 Stat. 2092)--
                    (A) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)(vi), by striking 
                        the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; 
                        and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as subparagraph 
                (C) and adjusting the margins accordingly; and
            (16) in section 1098(6) (124 Stat. 2104), by inserting 
        ``the first place that term appears'' before ``and''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by paragraphs (14), (15), 
and (16) of subsection (a) of this section shall take effect as if 
enacted as part of subtitle H of the Consumer Financial Protection Act 
of 2010 (title X of Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 2080).

SEC. 999C. TITLE XI CORRECTION.

    Section 1105(d)(1) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5612(d)(1)) is amended by striking 
``authority.--'' and all that follows through ``by the President'' and 
inserting ``authority.--A request by the President''.

SEC. 999D. TITLE XII CORRECTION.

    Section 1208(b) of the Improving Access to Mainstream Financial 
Institutions Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5626(b)) is amended by striking 
``Fund for each'' and inserting ``Fund (as defined in section 103(10) 
of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 
1994 (12 U.S.C. 4702(10))) for each''.

SEC. 999E. TITLE XIV CORRECTION.

    Section 1451(c) of the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1701x-1(c)) is amended by striking ``pursuant''.

SEC. 999F. CONFORMING CORRECTIONS TO OTHER STATUTES.

    (a) Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity Act of 1982.--The 
Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity Act of 1982 (12 U.S.C. 3801 et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 802(a)(3) (12 U.S.C. 3801(a)(3)), by 
        striking ``the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision'' 
        and inserting ``the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection''; 
        and
            (2) in section 804(d)(1) (12 U.S.C. 3803(d)(1))--
                    (A) by striking ``identified'' and inserting 
                ``issued''; and
                    (B) by striking the comma after ``Administration''.
    (b) Bank Holding Company Acts.--
            (1) Bank holding company act amendments of 1970.--Section 
        106(b)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 
        (12 U.S.C. 1972(1)) is amended, in the undesignated matter 
        following subparagraph (E)--
                    (A) by inserting ``Office of the'' before 
                ``Comptroller of the''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Company'' and inserting ``Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation''.
            (2) Bank holding company act of 1956.--Section 13 of the 
        Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1851) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(1)(E), by striking ``102 of 
                the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 
                662)'' and inserting ``103(3) of the Small Business 
                Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662(3))'';
                    (B) in subsection (f)(3)(A)(ii), by striking 
                ``(d)(1)(g)(v)'' and inserting ``(d)(1)(G)(v)''; and
                    (C) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) of 
                subsection (h)(1), by striking ``section 8 of the 
                International Banking Act of 1978'' and inserting 
                ``section 8(a) of the International Banking Act of 1978 
                (12 U.S.C. 3106(a))''.
    (c) Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act.--Section 
255(g)(1)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 905(g)(1)(A)) is amended by striking ``Office of 
Thrift Supervision (20-4108-0-3-373).''.
    (d) Bretton Woods Agreements Act.--Section 68(a)(1) of the Bretton 
Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286tt(a)(1)) is amended by striking 
``Fund ,'' and inserting ``Fund,''.
    (e) CAN-SPAM Act of 2003.--Section 7(b)(1)(D) of the CAN-SPAM Act 
of 2003 (15 U.S.C. 7706(b)(1)(D)) is amended by striking ``Director of 
the Office of Thrift Supervision'' and inserting ``Comptroller of the 
Currency or the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, as applicable''.
    (f) Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998.--Section 
1306(b)(2) of the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (15 
U.S.C. 6505(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``Director of the Office of 
Thrift Supervision'' and inserting ``Comptroller of the Currency or the 
Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as 
applicable''.
    (g) Commodity Exchange Act.--The Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 
et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 1a (7 U.S.C. 1a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (12)(A)(i)(II), by adding a 
                semicolon at the end;
                    (B) in paragraph (39)(A)(iv), by striking ``225'' 
                and inserting ``25''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (47)(B)(viii)(II), by striking 
                ``(15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(11))'' and inserting ``(15 U.S.C. 
                77b(a)(11)))'';
            (2) in section 2 (7 U.S.C. 2)--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(2)(D)(ii)(I), by striking 
                ``subparagraphs'' and inserting ``subparagraph''; and
                    (B) in subsection (h)--
                            (i) in paragraph (5)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``Swaps'' 
                                        and inserting ``Each swap''; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) by striking ``no later 
                                        than 180 days after the 
                                        effective date of this 
                                        subsection.'' and inserting 
                                        ``no later than--
                            ``(i) 30 days after the issuance of the 
                        interim final rule; or
                            ``(ii) such other date as the Commission 
                        determines appropriate.''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``Swaps'' and inserting ``Each 
                                swap'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (7)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (C)(i)(VII), by 
                                inserting ``or a governmental plan'' 
                                after ``employee benefit plan''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (D)(ii)(V), by 
                                striking ``of that Act'' and inserting 
                                ``of that section''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (8)(A)(ii), by inserting 
                        ``section'' before ``5h or'';
            (3) in section 4 (7 U.S.C. 6)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by striking 
                ``commission'' each place that term appears and 
                inserting ``Commission''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``the Commission 
                                shall not grant exemptions,'' after 
                                ``grant exemptions,''; and
                                    (II) in clause (i)--
                                            (aa) in subclause (I)--

                                                    (AA) by striking 
                                                ``5(g), 5(h),''; and

                                                    (BB) by striking 
                                                ``8e,''; and

                                            (bb) in subclause (II), by 
                                        striking ``206(e)'' and 
                                        inserting ``206''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                        ``(D))'' and inserting ``(D)'';
            (4) in section 4d(f)(2)(A) (7 U.S.C. 6d(f)(2)(A)), by 
        striking ``though'' and inserting ``through'';
            (5) in section 4s (7 U.S.C. 6s)--
                    (A) in subsection (e)(3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (B)(i)(II), by striking 
                        ``(11))'' and inserting ``(11)))''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (D)(ii), in the matter 
                        preceding subclause (I), by striking ``non cash 
                        collateral'' and inserting ``noncash 
                        collateral'';
                    (B) in subsection (f)(1)(B)(i), by striking 
                ``Commission'' and inserting ``prudential regulator'';
                    (C) in subsection (h)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ``a'' 
                        before ``swap with''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (5)(A)--
                                    (I) in clause (i)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``section 
                                        1a(18)'' and inserting 
                                        ``section 1a(18)(A)''; and
                                            (bb) in subclause (VII), by 
                                        striking ``act of'' and 
                                        inserting ``Act of''; and
                                    (II) in clause (ii), by inserting 
                                ``in connection with the transaction'' 
                                after ``acting''; and
                    (D) in subsection (k)(3)(A)(ii), by striking ``the 
                code'' and inserting ``any code'';
            (6) in section 5(d)(19)(A) (7 U.S.C. 7(d)(19)(A)), by 
        striking ``taking'' and inserting ``take'';
            (7) in section 5b (7 U.S.C. 7a-1), by redesignating 
        subsection (k) as subsection (j);
            (8) in section 5c(c) (7 U.S.C. 7a-2(c))--
                    (A) in paragraph (4)(B), by striking ``1a(10)'' and 
                inserting ``1a(9)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (5)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``this 
                        subtitle'' and inserting ``this Act''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C)(i), by striking 
                        ``1a(2)(i)'' and inserting ``1a(9)'';
            (9) in section 5h (7 U.S.C. 7b-3)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1) , by striking ``a 
                facility'' and inserting ``a swap execution facility''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection (f)(11)(A), by striking 
                ``taking'' and inserting ``take'';
            (10) in section 22(a)(1)(C)(ii) (7 U.S.C. 25(a)(1)(C)(ii)), 
        by striking ``or'' at the end; and
            (11) in section 23 (7 U.S.C. 26)--
                    (A) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)(B)(i)(III), by 
                        striking ``the Act'' each place that term 
                        appears and inserting ``this Act''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)(A)(i), by striking 
                        ``a appropriate'' and inserting ``an 
                        appropriate''; and
                    (B) in subsection (f)(3), by striking ``7064'' and 
                inserting ``706''.
    (h) Community Reinvestment Act of 1977.--The Community Reinvestment 
Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2901 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 803(1)(C) (12 U.S.C. 2902(1)(C)), by 
        striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
            (2) in section 806 (12 U.S.C. 2905), by striking 
        ``companies,,'' and inserting ``companies,''.
    (i) Credit Repair Organizations Act.--Section 403(4) of the Credit 
Repair Organizations Act (15 U.S.C. 1679a(4)) is amended by striking 
``103(e)'' and inserting ``103(f)''.
    (j) Depository Institution Management Interlocks Act.--Section 
205(9) of the Depository Institution Management Interlocks Act (12 
U.S.C. 3204(9)) is amended by striking ``Director of the Office of 
Thrift Supervision'' and inserting ``appropriate Federal banking 
agency''.
    (k) Economic Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduction Act of 
1996.--Section 2227(a)(1) of the Economic Growth and Regulatory 
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1996 (12 U.S.C. 252(a)(1)) is amended by 
striking ``the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision,''.
    (l) Electronic Fund Transfer Act.--The Electronic Fund Transfer Act 
(15 U.S.C. 1693 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 903 (15 U.S.C. 1693a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``103(i)'' and 
                inserting ``103(j)''; and
                    (B) by redesignating the first paragraph designated 
                as paragraph (4) (defining the term ``Board'') as 
                paragraph (3);
            (2) in section 904(a) (15 U.S.C. 1693b(a))--
                    (A) by redesignating the second paragraph 
                designated as paragraph (1) (relating to consultation 
                with other agencies), the second paragraph designated 
                as paragraph (2) (relating to the preparation of an 
                analysis of economic impact), paragraph (3), and 
                paragraph (4) as subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D), 
                respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;
                    (B) by striking ``In prescribing such regulations, 
                the Board shall:'' and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Regulations.--In prescribing regulations under this 
        subsection, the Bureau and the Board shall--'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(C), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``the Board shall'';
                    (D) in paragraph (3)(D), as so redesignated--
                            (i) by inserting ``send promptly'' before 
                        ``any''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``shall be sent promptly 
                        to Congress by the Board'' and inserting ``to 
                        Congress'';
            (3) in section 909(c) (15 U.S.C. 1693g(c)), by striking 
        ``103(e)'' and inserting ``103(f)'';
            (4) in section 918(a)(4) (15 U.S.C. 1693o(a)(4), by 
        striking ``Act and'' and inserting ``Act; and''; and
            (5) in section 920(a)(4)(C) (15 U.S.C. 1693o-2(a)(4)(C)), 
        by striking ``the Director of the Office of Thrift 
        Supervision,''.
    (m) Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.--Section 101(b) 
of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5211(b)) 
is amended by striking ``the Director of the Office of Thrift 
Supervision,''.
    (n) Equal Credit Opportunity Act.--The Equal Credit Opportunity Act 
(15 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 703 (15 U.S.C. 1691b)--
                    (A) in each of subsections (c) and (d), by striking 
                ``paragraph'' each place that term appears and 
                inserting ``subsection''; and
                    (B) in subsection (g), by adding a period at the 
                end;
            (2) in section 704 (15 U.S.C. 1691c)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Consumer 
                Protection Financial Protection Act of 2010 with'' and 
                inserting ``Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, 
                compliance with''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), in the second sentence, by 
                striking ``subchapter'' and inserting ``title'';
            (3) in section 704B(e)(3) (15 U.S.C. 1691c-2(e)(3)), by 
        striking ``(1)(E)'' and inserting ``(2)(E)''; and
            (4) in section 706(k) (15 U.S.C. 1691e(k)), by striking ``, 
        (2), or (3)'' and inserting ``or (2)''.
    (o) Expedited Funds Availability Act.--The Expedited Funds 
Availability Act (12 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 605(f)(2)(A) (12 U.S.C. 4004(f)(2)(A)), by 
        striking ``,,'' and inserting a semicolon; and
            (2) in section 610(a)(2) (12 U.S.C. 4009(a)(2)), by 
        striking ``Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision'' and 
        inserting ``Comptroller of the Currency and the Board of 
        Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as 
        appropriate,''.
    (p) Fair Credit Reporting Act.--The Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 
U.S.C. 1681 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 603 (15 U.S.C. 1681a)--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(2)(D), by striking ``(x)'' 
                and inserting ``(y)'';
                    (B) in subsection (q)(5), by striking ``103(i)'' 
                and inserting ``103(j)''; and
                    (C) in subsection (v), by striking ``Bureau'' and 
                inserting ``Federal Trade Commission'';
            (2) in section 604 (15 U.S.C. 1681b)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2)(B)(i), by striking 
                ``section 615(a)(3)'' and inserting ``section 
                615(a)(4)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (g)(5), by striking ``paragraph 
                (2).--'' and all that follows through ``The Bureau'' 
                and inserting ``paragraph (2).--The Bureau'';
            (3) in section 605(h)(2)(A) (15 U.S.C. 1681c(h)(2)(A))--
                    (A) by striking ``shall,,'' and inserting 
                ``shall,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Commission,,'' and inserting 
                ``Commission,'';
            (4) in paragraphs (1)(A), (1)(B)(i), (2)(A)(i), and (2)(B) 
        of section 605A(h) (15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(h))--
                    (A) by striking ``103(i)'' and inserting ``103(j)'' 
                each place that term appears; and
                    (B) by striking ``open-end'' and inserting ``open 
                end'' each place that term appears;
            (5) in section 609 (15 U.S.C. 1681g)--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(1)--
                            (i) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                        ``commission'' and inserting ``bureau''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)(vi), by striking 
                        ``603(w)'' and inserting ``603(x)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``The Commission'' each place that 
                term appears and inserting ``The Bureau'';
            (6) in section 611 (15 U.S.C. 1681i), by striking ``The 
        Commission'' each place that term appears and inserting ``The 
        Bureau'';
            (7) in section 612 (15 U.S.C. 1681j)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``(w)'' and 
                inserting ``(x)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``The Commission'' each place that 
                term appears and inserting ``The Bureau''; and
            (8) in section 621 (15 U.S.C. 1681s)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1), in the first sentence, by 
                striking ``, subsection (b)'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)(2), by inserting a period 
                after ``provisions of this title''; and
                    (C) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``The 
                Commission'' and inserting ``The Bureau''.
    (q) Federal Credit Union Act.--Section 206(g)(7)(D)(iv) of the 
Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(g)(7)(D)(iv)) is amended by 
striking the semicolon at the end and inserting a period.
    (r) Federal Deposit Insurance Act.--The Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 3(q)(2)(C) (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)(2)(C)), by 
        adding ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in section 7 (12 U.S.C. 1817)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``(D)'' and inserting ``(C)''; and
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and 
                        (E) as subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively; 
                        and
                    (B) in subsection (e)(2)(C), by adding a period at 
                the end;
            (3) in section 8 (12 U.S.C. 1818)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``Act))'' and 
                inserting ``Act)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (t)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (C), by 
                                striking ``depositors or'' and 
                                inserting ``depositors; or''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (D), by 
                                striking the semicolon at the end and 
                                inserting a period; and
                            (ii) by redesignating the second paragraph 
                        designated as paragraph (6), as added by 
                        section 1090(1) of the Consumer Financial 
                        Protection Act of 2010 (title X of Public Law 
                        111-203; 124 Stat. 2093) (relating to referral 
                        to the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
                        Protection), as paragraph (7);
            (4) in section 10(b)(3)(A) (12 U.S.C. 1820(b)(3)(A)), by 
        striking ``that Act'' and inserting ``the Dodd-Frank Wall 
        Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5301 et 
        seq.)'';
            (5) in section 11 (12 U.S.C. 1821)--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(2)(I)(ii), by striking ``and 
                section 21A(b)(4)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (m), in each of paragraphs (16) 
                and (18), by striking the comma after ``Comptroller of 
                the Currency'' each place it appears; and
            (6) in section 26(a) (12 U.S.C. 1831c(a)), by striking 
        ``Holding Company Act'' each place that term appears and 
        inserting ``Holding Company Act of 1956''.
    (s) Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Act of 
1978.--Section 1003(1) of the Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3302(1)) is amended by 
striking ``the Office of Thrift Supervision,''.
    (t) Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974.--Section 
31(a)(5)(B) of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15 
U.S.C. 2227(a)(5)(B)) is amended by striking ``the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation'' and all that follows through the period and 
inserting ``or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under the 
affordable housing program under section 40 of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act.''.
    (u) Federal Home Loan Bank Act.--The Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 
U.S.C. 1421 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 10(h)(1) (12 U.S.C. 1430(h)(1)), by striking 
        ``Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision'' and inserting 
        ``Comptroller of the Currency or the Board of Directors of the 
        Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as applicable''; and
            (2) in section 22(a) (12 U.S.C. 1442(a))--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``Currency'' and all that follows through 
                ``Supervision'' and inserting ``Currency, the Chairman 
                of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
                System, the Chairperson of the Federal Deposit 
                Insurance Corporation, and the Chairman of the National 
                Credit Union Administration''; and
                    (B) in the undesignated matter following paragraph 
                (2), by striking ``Currency'' and all that follows 
                through ``Supervision'' and inserting ``Currency, the 
                Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
                Reserve System, and the Chairman of the National Credit 
                Union Administration''.
    (v) Federal Reserve Act.--The Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 221 et 
seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 10 (12 U.S.C. 247b), by redesignating 
        paragraph (12) as paragraph (11); and
            (2) in section 11 (12 U.S.C. 248)--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (s), as added by 
                section 1103(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
                and Consumer Protection Act (124 Stat. 2118) (relating 
                to Federal Reserve transparency and release of 
                information), as subsection (t), and moving subsection 
                (t), as so redesignated, so it appears after subsection 
                (s);
                    (B) in subsection (s)(2)(C), by striking 
                ``supervised by the Board'' and inserting ``subject to 
                a final determination''; and
                    (C) in subsection (t), as so redesignated, in 
                paragraph (8)(B), by striking ``this section'' and 
                inserting ``this subsection''.
    (w) Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 
1989.--The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act 
of 1989 (Public Law 101-73; 103 Stat. 183) is amended--
            (1) in section 1121(6) (12 U.S.C. 3350(6)), by striking 
        ``the Office of Thrift Supervision,''; and
            (2) in section 1206(a) (12 U.S.C. 1833b(a)), by striking 
        ``and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection,'' and 
        inserting ``the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and''.
    (x) Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.--The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (Public Law 
106-102; 113 Stat. 1338) is amended--
            (1) in section 132(a) (12 U.S.C. 1828b(a)), by striking 
        ``the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision,'';
            (2) in section 206(a) (15 U.S.C. 78c note), by striking 
        ``Except as provided in subsection (e), for'' and inserting 
        ``For'';
            (3) in section 502(e)(5) (15 U.S.C. 6802(e)(5)), by 
        inserting a comma after ``Protection'';
            (4) in section 504(a)(2) (15 U.S.C. 6804(a)(2)), by 
        striking ``and, as appropriate, and with'' and inserting ``and, 
        as appropriate, with'';
            (5) in section 509(2) (15 U.S.C. 6809(2))--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (D); and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) and (F) as 
                subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively; and
            (6) in section 522(b)(1)(A)(iv) (15 U.S.C. 
        6822(b)(1)(A)(iv)), by striking ``Director of the Office of 
        Thrift Supervision'' and inserting ``Comptroller of the 
        Currency and the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit 
        Insurance Corporation, as appropriate''.
    (y) Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009.--Section 104 of 
the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-25) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``and the Director of the 
                        Office of Thrift Supervision, shall jointly'' 
                        and inserting ``shall'';
                            (ii) by striking ``Senate,'' and inserting 
                        ``Senate and'';
                            (iii) by striking ``and the Office of 
                        Thrift Supervision''; and
                            (iv) by striking ``each such'' and 
                        inserting ``such''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and the Office 
                of Thrift Supervision''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in the first sentence--
                                    (I) by striking ``and the Director 
                                of the Office of Thrift Supervision,''; 
                                and
                                    (II) by striking ``or the 
                                Director''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``and the Director of the Office of Thrift 
                        Supervision''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and the 
                Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision''.
    (z) Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975.--The Home Mortgage 
Disclosure Act of 1975 (12 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 304(j)(3) (12 U.S.C. 2803(j)(3)), by adding 
        a period at the end; and
            (2) in section 305(b)(1)(A) (12 U.S.C. 2804(b)(1)(A))--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                inserting ``by'' before ``the appropriate Federal 
                banking agency''; and
                    (B) in clause (iii), by striking ``bank as,'' and 
                inserting ``bank, as''.
    (aa) Home Owners' Loan Act.--The Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 
1461 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 5 (12 U.S.C. 1464)--
                    (A) in subsection (d)(2)(E)(ii)--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``Except as provided in section 21A of the 
                        Federal Home Loan Bank Act, the'' and inserting 
                        ``The''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``, at the Director's 
                        discretion,'';
                    (B) in subsection (i)(6), by striking ``the Office 
                of Thrift Supervision or'';
                    (C) in subsection (m), by striking ``Director's'' 
                each place that term appears and inserting 
                ``appropriate Federal banking agency's'';
                    (D) in subsection (n)(9)(B), by striking 
                ``Director's'' and inserting ``Comptroller's''; and
                    (E) in subsection (s)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A), by striking ``of such 
                                Act)'' and all that follows through 
                                ``shall require'' and inserting ``of 
                                such Act), the appropriate Federal 
                                banking agency shall require''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``other methods'' and all that 
                                follows through ``determines'' and 
                                inserting ``other methods as the 
                                appropriate Federal banking agency 
                                determines'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``determined'' and 
                                all that follows through ``may, 
                                consistent'' and inserting ``determined 
                                by appropriate federal banking agency 
                                case-by-case.--The appropriate Federal 
                                banking agency may, consistent''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``capital-to-
                                assets'' and all that follows through 
                                ``determines to be necessary'' and 
                                inserting ``capital-to-assets as the 
                                appropriate Federal banking agency 
                                determines to be necessary''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) by striking ``agency, may'' and 
                                inserting ``agency may''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``the 
                                Comptroller'' and inserting ``the 
                                appropriate Federal banking agency'';
            (2) in section 6(c) (12 U.S.C. 1465(c)), by striking 
        ``sections'' and inserting ``section'';
            (3) in section 10 (12 U.S.C. 1467a)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(6), by striking ``time'' and 
                all that follows through ``release'' and inserting 
                ``time, upon the motion or application of the Board, 
                release'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)(2)(H)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding clause (i)--
                                    (I) by striking ``1841(p))'' and 
                                inserting ``1841(p)))''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``(12 U.S.C. 
                                1843(k))'' before ``if--''; and
                            (ii) in clause (i), by inserting ``of 1956 
                        (12 U.S.C. 1843(l) and (m))'' after ``Company 
                        Act''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e)(7)(B)(iii)--
                            (i) by striking ``Board of the Office of 
                        Thrift Supervision'' and inserting ``Director 
                        of the Office of Thrift Supervision''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``(as defined in section 
                        2 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
                        Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5301))'' 
                        after ``transfer date''; and
            (4) in section 13 (12 U.S.C. 1468b), by striking ``the a'' 
        and inserting ``a''.
    (bb) Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994.--Section 158 
of the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 (15 U.S.C. 1601 
note) is amended by striking ``Bureau'' each place that term appears 
and inserting ``Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection''.
    (cc) Housing Act of 1948.--Section 502(c)(3) of the Housing Act of 
1948 (12 U.S.C. 1701c(c)(3)) is amended by striking ``Federal Home Loan 
Bank Agency'' and inserting ``Federal Housing Finance Agency''.
    (dd) Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968.--Section 106(h)(5) 
of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 
1701x(h)(5)) is amended by striking ``authorised'' and inserting 
``authorized''.
    (ee) International Banking Act of 1978.--Section 15 of the 
International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3109) is amended--
            (1) in each of subsections (a) and (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``, and Director of the Office of 
                Thrift Supervision'' each place that term appears; and
                    (B) by inserting ``and'' before ``Federal Deposit'' 
                each place that term appears;
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``Comptroller, 
        Corporation, or Director'' and inserting ``Comptroller, or 
        Corporation''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)(4)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and'' before ``the Federal 
                Deposit''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, and the Director of the Office 
                of Thrift Supervision''.
    (ff) International Lending Supervision Act of 1983.--Section 912 of 
the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (12 U.S.C. 3911) is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``and the office of 
        thrift supervision'';
            (2) by striking subsection (b);
            (3) by striking ``(a) In General.--''; and
            (4) by striking ``4'' and inserting ``3''.
    (gg) Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act.--The Interstate 
Land Sales Full Disclosure Act (15 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 1402(1) (15 U.S.C. 1701(1)) by striking 
        ``Bureau of'' and all that follows through the semicolon at the 
        end and inserting ``Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection;''; 
        and
            (2) in each of section 1411(b) (15 U.S.C. 1710(b)) and 
        subsections (b)(4) and (d) of section 1418a (15 U.S.C. 1717a), 
        by striking ``Secretary's'' each place that term appears and 
        inserting ``Director's''.
    (hh) Investment Advisers Act of 1940.--Section 224 of the 
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-18c) is amended in the 
section heading, by striking ``commodities'' and inserting 
``commodity''.
    (ii) Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000.--Section 
403(b)(1) of the Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000 (7 
U.S.C. 27a(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``that section'' and inserting 
``section''.
    (jj) Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009.--Section 626(b) of the 
Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (12 U.S.C. 5538(b)) is amended, in 
each of paragraphs (2) and (3), by inserting a comma after ``as 
appropriate'' each place that term appears.
    (kk) Public Law 93-495.--Section 111 of Public Law 93-495 (12 
U.S.C. 250) is amended by striking ``the Director of the Office of 
Thrift Supervision,''.
    (ll) Revised Statutes of the United States.--Section 5136C(i) of 
the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 25b(i)) is amended 
by striking ``Powers.--'' and all that follows through ``In 
accordance'' and inserting ``Powers.--In accordance''.
    (mm) Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 
1994.--Section 117(e) of the Riegle Community Development and 
Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4716(e)) is amended by 
striking ``the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision,''.
    (nn) S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008.--Section 1514 of the 
S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5113) is amended in 
each of subsections (b)(5) and (c)(4)(C), by striking ``Secretary's'' 
each place that term appears and inserting ``Director's''.
    (oo) Securities Exchange Act of 1934.--The Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 3C(g)(4)(B)(v) (15 U.S.C. 78c-
        3(g)(4)(B)(v)), by striking ``of that Act'' and inserting ``of 
        that section'';
            (2) in section 3D(d)(10)(A) (15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(10)(A)), by 
        striking ``taking'' and inserting ``take'';
            (3) in section 3E(b)(1) (15 U.S.C. 78c-5(b)(1)), by 
        striking ``though'' and inserting ``through'';
            (4) in section 4(g)(8)(A) (15 U.S.C. 78d(g)(8)(A)), by 
        striking ``(2)(A)(i)'' and inserting ``(2)(A)(ii)'';
            (5) in section 15 (15 U.S.C. 78o)--
                    (A) in each of subparagraphs (B)(ii) and (C) of 
                subsection (b)(4), by striking ``dealer municipal 
                advisor,,'' and inserting ``dealer, municipal 
                advisor,'';
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (j) (relating to 
                the authority of the Commission) as subsection (p), and 
                moving that subsection so it follows subsection (o);
                    (C) by redesignating subsections (k) and (l) 
                (relating to standard of conduct and other matters, 
                respectively), as added by section 913(g)(1) of the 
                Investor Protection and Securities Reform Act of 2010 
                (title IX of Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 1828), as 
                subsections (q) and (r), respectively and moving those 
                subsections to the end; and
                    (D) in subsection (m), in the undesignated matter 
                following paragraph (2), by inserting ``the'' before 
                ``same extent'';
            (6) in section 15F(h) (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(h))--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``a'' 
                        after ``that acts as an advisor to''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting 
                        ``a'' after ``offers to enter into''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (5)(A)(i)--
                            (i) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(18)''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in subclause (VII), by striking ``act 
                        of'' and inserting ``Act of'';
            (7) in section 15G (15 U.S.C. 78o-11)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ``Director 
                of the'' before ``Federal Housing''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) in paragraph (4)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                striking ``subsection'' and inserting 
                                ``section''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (C)--
                                            (aa) by striking 
                                        ``129C(c)(2)'' and inserting 
                                        ``129C(b)(2)(A)''; and
                                            (bb) by inserting ``(15 
                                        U.S.C. 1639c(b)(2)(A))'' after 
                                        ``Lending Act''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (5), by striking 
                        ``subsection'' and inserting ``section''; and
            (8) in section 17A (15 U.S.C. 78q-1), by redesignating the 
        second subsection designated as subsection (g), as added by 
        section 929W of the Investor Protection and Securities Reform 
        Act of 2010 (title IX of Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 1869) 
        (relating to due diligence for the delivery of dividends, 
        interest, and other valuable property rights), as subsection 
        (n) and moving that subsection to the end.
    (pp) Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act.--
Section 3(b) of the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse 
Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6102(b)) is amended by inserting before the 
period at the end the following: ``, provided, however, that nothing in 
this section shall conflict with or supersede section 6 of the Federal 
Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 46)''.
    (qq) Title 5.--Title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in section 3132(a)(1)(D), by striking ``the Office of 
        Thrift Supervision,, the Resolution Trust Corporation,''; and
            (2) in section 5314, by striking ``Director of the Office 
        of Thrift Supervision.''.
    (rr) Title 31.--
            (1) Amendments.--Title 31, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking section 309;
                    (B) in section 313--
                            (i) in subsection (j)(2), by striking 
                        ``Agency''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (r)(4), by striking 
                        ``the Office of Thrift Supervision,''; and
                    (C) in section 714(d)(3)(B) by striking ``a audit'' 
                and inserting ``an audit''.
            (2) Analysis.--The analysis for subchapter I of chapter 3 
        of title 31, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
        item relating to section 309.
    (ss) Truth in Lending Act.--The Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 
1601 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 103(dd)(2)(E)(v) (15 U.S.C. 
        1602(dd)(2)(E)(v)), as redesignated by section 909(a)(1) of 
        this Act, by striking ``Board'' and inserting ``Bureau'';
            (2) in section 105 (15 U.S.C. 1604), by inserting 
        subsection (h), as added by section 1472(c) of the Mortgage 
        Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act (title XIV of Public Law 
        111-203; 124 Stat. 2190), before subsection (i), as added by 
        section 1100A(7) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 
        2010 (title X of Public Law 111-203; 124 Stat. 2108);
            (3) in section 106(f)(2)(B)(i) (15 U.S.C. 
        1605(f)(2)(B)(i)), by striking ``103(w)'' and inserting 
        ``103(x)'';
            (4) in section 121(b) (15 U.S.C. 1631(b)), by striking 
        ``103(f)'' and inserting ``103(g)'';
            (5) in section 122(d)(5) (15 U.S.C. 1632(d)(5)), by 
        striking ``and the Bureau'';
            (6) in section 125(e)(1) (15 U.S.C. 1635(e)(1)), by 
        striking ``103(w)'' and inserting ``103(x)'';
            (7) in section 129 (15 U.S.C. 1639)--
                    (A) in subsection (q), by striking ``(l)(2)'' and 
                inserting ``(p)(2)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (u)(3), by striking ``Board'' 
                each place that term appears and inserting ``Bureau'';
            (8) in section 129C (15 U.S.C. 1639c)--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2)(B), by striking the second 
                period at the end; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1)(B)(ii)(I), by striking ``a 
                original'' and inserting ``an original'';
            (9) in section 140A (15 U.S.C. 1651), by striking ``the 
        Bureau and'';
            (10) in section 148(d) (15 U.S.C. 1665c(d)), by striking 
        ``Bureau'' and inserting ``Board'';
            (11) in section 149 (15 U.S.C. 1665d)--
                    (A) by striking ``the Director of the Office of 
                Thrift Supervision,'' each place that term appears;
                    (B) by striking ``National Credit Union 
                Administration Bureau'' each place that term appears 
                and inserting ``National Credit Union Administration 
                Board''; and
                    (C) by striking ``Bureau of Directors of the 
                Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation'' each place that 
                term appears and inserting ``Board of Directors of the 
                Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation''; and
            (12) in section 181(1) (15 U.S.C. 1667(1)), by striking 
        ``103(g)'' and inserting ``103(h)''.
    (tt) Truth in Savings Act.--The Truth in Savings Act (12 U.S.C. 
4301 et seq.) is amended in each of sections 269(a)(4) (12 U.S.C. 
4308(a)(4)), 270(a)(2) (12 U.S.C. 4309(a)(2)), and 274(6) (12 U.S.C. 
4313(6)), by striking ``Administration Bureau'' each place that term 
appears and inserting ``Administration Board''.

SEC. 999G. RULEMAKING DEADLINES.

    (a) One-Year Extension.--The deadline for issuance of any rule or 
regulation, conduct of any study, or submission of any report required 
by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
(Public Law 111-203) or amendments made by that Act that has not been 
met or is not met in final form by the date specified in that Act or 
those amendments, shall be extended for 1 year.
    (b) No Effect on Finalized Rules.--The extension provided under 
subsection (a) shall have no effect on any rule required by the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-
203) or amendments made by that Act that have been issued in final form 
before the date of enactment of this title.

SEC. 999H. EFFECTIVE DATES.

    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title--
            (1) the amendments made by this title to a provision of the 
        Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
        (Public Law 111-203) shall take effect as if enacted on the 
        effective date of the provision, immediately after the 
        provision takes effect; and
            (2) the amendments made by this title to a provision of law 
        amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
        Protection Act shall take effect as if enacted on the effective 
        date of the amendment to that provision of law made by the 
        Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 
        immediately after the amendment made by the Dodd-Frank Wall 
        Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act takes effect.
    This division may be cited as the ``Financial Services and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2016''.

   DIVISION B--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                       Bureau of Land Management

                   management of lands and resources

    For necessary expenses for protection, use, improvement, 
development, disposal, cadastral surveying, classification, acquisition 
of easements and other interests in lands, and performance of other 
functions, including maintenance of facilities, as authorized by law, 
in the management of lands and their resources under the jurisdiction 
of the Bureau of Land Management, including the general administration 
of the Bureau, and assessment of mineral potential of public lands 
pursuant to section 1010(a) of Public Law 96-487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), 
$1,045,562,000, to remain available until expended, including all such 
amounts as are collected from permit processing fees, as authorized but 
made subject to future appropriation by section 35(d)(3)(A)(i) of the 
Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191), as amended, except that amounts 
from permit processing fees may be used for any bureau-related expenses 
associated with the processing of oil and gas applications for permits 
to drill and related use authorizations; of which $3,000,000 shall be 
available in fiscal year 2016 subject to a match by at least an equal 
amount by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation for cost-shared 
projects supporting conservation of Bureau lands; and such funds shall 
be advanced to the Foundation as a lump-sum grant without regard to 
when expenses are incurred.
    In addition, $39,696,000 is for Mining Law Administration program 
operations, including the cost of administering the mining claim fee 
program, to remain available until expended, to be reduced by amounts 
collected by the Bureau and credited to this appropriation from mining 
claim maintenance fees and location fees that are hereby authorized for 
fiscal year 2016, so as to result in a final appropriation estimated at 
not more than $1,045,562,000, and $2,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, from communication site rental fees established by the Bureau 
for the cost of administering communication site activities.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out sections 205, 206, and 318(d) 
of Public Law 94-579, including administrative expenses and acquisition 
of lands or waters, or interests therein, $18,922,000, to be derived 
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain available until 
expended.

                   oregon and california grant lands

    For expenses necessary for management, protection, and development 
of resources and for construction, operation, and maintenance of access 
roads, reforestation, and other improvements on the revested Oregon and 
California Railroad grant lands, on other Federal lands in the Oregon 
and California land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adjacent rights-
of-way; and acquisition of lands or interests therein, including 
existing connecting roads on or adjacent to such grant lands; 
$105,621,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 25 
percent of the aggregate of all receipts during the current fiscal year 
from the revested Oregon and California Railroad grant lands is hereby 
made a charge against the Oregon and California land-grant fund and 
shall be transferred to the General Fund in the Treasury in accordance 
with the second paragraph of subsection (b) of title II of the Act of 
August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 1181(f)).

                           range improvements

    For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisition of lands and 
interests therein, and improvement of Federal rangelands pursuant to 
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1751), notwithstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50 percent 
of all moneys received during the prior fiscal year under sections 3 
and 15 of the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315(b), 315(m)) and the 
amount designated for range improvements from grazing fees and mineral 
leasing receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands transferred to the 
Department of the Interior pursuant to law, but not less than 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That not to 
exceed $600,000 shall be available for administrative expenses.

               service charges, deposits, and forfeitures

    For administrative expenses and other costs related to processing 
application documents and other authorizations for use and disposal of 
public lands and resources, for costs of providing copies of official 
public land documents, for monitoring construction, operation, and 
termination of facilities in conjunction with use authorizations, and 
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such amounts as may be 
collected under Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and under 
section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 185), to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any 
provision to the contrary of section 305(a) of Public Law 94-579 (43 
U.S.C. 1735(a)), any moneys that have been or will be received pursuant 
to that section, whether as a result of forfeiture, compromise, or 
settlement, if not appropriate for refund pursuant to section 305(c) of 
that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)), shall be available and may be expended 
under the authority of this Act by the Secretary to improve, protect, 
or rehabilitate any public lands administered through the Bureau of 
Land Management which have been damaged by the action of a resource 
developer, purchaser, permittee, or any unauthorized person, without 
regard to whether all moneys collected from each such action are used 
on the exact lands damaged which led to the action:  Provided further, 
That any such moneys that are in excess of amounts needed to repair 
damage to the exact land for which funds were collected may be used to 
repair other damaged public lands.

                       miscellaneous trust funds

    In addition to amounts authorized to be expended under existing 
laws, there is hereby appropriated such amounts as may be contributed 
under section 307 of Public Law 94-579 (43 U.S.C. 1737), and such 
amounts as may be advanced for administrative costs, surveys, 
appraisals, and costs of making conveyances of omitted lands under 
section 211(b) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to remain available 
until expended.

                       administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Land Management may carry out the operations funded 
under this Act by direct expenditure, contracts, grants, cooperative 
agreements and reimbursable agreements with public and private 
entities, including with States. Appropriations for the Bureau shall be 
available for purchase, erection, and dismantlement of temporary 
structures, and alteration and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities to which the United States has title; up to 
$100,000 for payments, at the discretion of the Secretary, for 
information or evidence concerning violations of laws administered by 
the Bureau; miscellaneous and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities authorized or approved by the Secretary and to be accounted 
for solely on the Secretary's certificate, not to exceed $10,000:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding Public Law 90-620 (44 U.S.C. 501), the 
Bureau may, under cooperative cost-sharing and partnership arrangements 
authorized by law, procure printing services from cooperators in 
connection with jointly produced publications for which the cooperators 
share the cost of printing either in cash or in services, and the 
Bureau determines the cooperator is capable of meeting accepted quality 
standards:  Provided further, That projects to be funded pursuant to a 
written commitment by a State government to provide an identified 
amount of money in support of the project may be carried out by the 
Bureau on a reimbursable basis. Appropriations herein made shall not be 
available for the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild horses and 
burros in the care of the Bureau or its contractors or for the sale of 
wild horses and burros that results in their destruction for processing 
into commercial products.

                United States Fish and Wildlife Service

                          resource management

    For necessary expenses of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
Service, as authorized by law, and for scientific and economic studies, 
general administration, and for the performance of other authorized 
functions related to such resources, $1,203,545,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017 except as otherwise provided herein: 
 Provided, That not to exceed $17,515,000 shall be used for 
implementing subsections (a), (b), (c), and (e) of section 4 of the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533) (except for processing 
petitions, developing and issuing proposed and final regulations, and 
taking any other steps to implement actions described in subsection 
(c)(2)(A), (c)(2)(B)(i), or (c)(2)(B)(ii)), of which not to exceed 
$1,605,000 shall be used for any activity regarding the designation of 
critical habitat, pursuant to subsection (a)(3), excluding litigation 
support, for species listed pursuant to subsection (a)(1) prior to 
October 1, 2012; of which not to exceed $1,501,000 shall be used for 
any activity regarding petitions to list species that are indigenous to 
the United States pursuant to subsections (b)(3)(A) and (b)(3)(B); and, 
of which not to exceed $1,504,000 shall be used for implementing 
subsections (a), (b), (c), and (e) of section 4 of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533) for species that are not 
indigenous to the United States.

                              construction

    For construction, improvement, acquisition, or removal of buildings 
and other facilities required in the conservation, management, 
investigation, protection, and utilization of fish and wildlife 
resources, and the acquisition of lands and interests therein; 
$23,687,000, to remain available until expended.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act of 1965, (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 et seq.), including administrative 
expenses, and for acquisition of land or waters, or interest therein, 
in accordance with statutory authority applicable to the United States 
Fish and Wildlife Service, $48,887,000, to be derived from the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund and to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated for specific land 
acquisition projects may be used to pay for any administrative 
overhead, planning or other management costs.

            cooperative endangered species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 6 of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1535), $42,417,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which $20,600,000 is to be derived from the 
Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund; and of which 
$21,817,000 is to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund.

                     national wildlife refuge fund

    For expenses necessary to implement the Act of October 17, 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 715s), $13,228,000.

               north american wetlands conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the North 
American Wetlands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.), 
$35,145,000, to remain available until expended.

                neotropical migratory bird conservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Neotropical Migratory Bird 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), $3,660,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                multinational species conservation fund

    For expenses necessary to carry out the African Elephant 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant 
Conservation Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the Rhinoceros and 
Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Great Ape 
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), and the Marine 
Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $10,061,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                    state and tribal wildlife grants

    For wildlife conservation grants to States and to the District of 
Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the 
Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and federally recognized 
Indian tribes under the provisions of the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 
and the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, for the development and 
implementation of programs for the benefit of wildlife and their 
habitat, including species that are not hunted or fished, $60,571,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That, of the amount 
provided herein, $4,084,000 is for a competitive grant program for 
federally recognized Indian tribes not subject to the remaining 
provisions of this appropriation:  Provided further, That $5,487,000 is 
for a competitive grant program to implement approved plans for States, 
territories, and other jurisdictions and at the discretion of affected 
States, the regional Associations of fish and wildlife agencies, not 
subject to the remaining provisions of this appropriation:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall, after deducting $9,571,000 and 
administrative expenses, apportion the amount provided herein in the 
following manner: (1) to the District of Columbia and to the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, each a sum equal to not more than one-half 
of 1 percent thereof; and (2) to Guam, American Samoa, the United 
States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands, each a sum equal to not more than one-fourth of 1 percent 
thereof:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall apportion the 
remaining amount in the following manner: (1) one-third of which is 
based on the ratio to which the land area of such State bears to the 
total land area of all such States; and (2) two-thirds of which is 
based on the ratio to which the population of such State bears to the 
total population of all such States:  Provided further, That the 
amounts apportioned under this paragraph shall be adjusted equitably so 
that no State shall be apportioned a sum which is less than 1 percent 
of the amount available for apportionment under this paragraph for any 
fiscal year or more than 5 percent of such amount:  Provided further, 
That the Federal share of planning grants shall not exceed 75 percent 
of the total costs of such projects and the Federal share of 
implementation grants shall not exceed 65 percent of the total costs of 
such projects:  Provided further, That the non-Federal share of such 
projects may not be derived from Federal grant programs:  Provided 
further, That any amount apportioned in 2016 to any State, territory, 
or other jurisdiction that remains unobligated as of September 30, 
2017, shall be reapportioned, together with funds appropriated in 2018, 
in the manner provided herein.

                       administrative provisions

    The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may carry out the 
operations of Service programs by direct expenditure, contracts, 
grants, cooperative agreements and reimbursable agreements with public 
and private entities. Appropriations and funds available to the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service shall be available for repair of 
damage to public roads within and adjacent to reservation areas caused 
by operations of the Service; options for the purchase of land at not 
to exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident to such public 
recreational uses on conservation areas as are consistent with their 
primary purpose; and the maintenance and improvement of aquaria, 
buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of the Service 
and to which the United States has title, and which are used pursuant 
to law in connection with management, and investigation of fish and 
wildlife resources:  Provided, That notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the 
Service may, under cooperative cost sharing and partnership 
arrangements authorized by law, procure printing services from 
cooperators in connection with jointly produced publications for which 
the cooperators share at least one-half the cost of printing either in 
cash or services and the Service determines the cooperator is capable 
of meeting accepted quality standards:  Provided further, That the 
Service may accept donated aircraft as replacements for existing 
aircraft:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, all 
fees collected for non-toxic shot review and approval shall be 
deposited under the heading ``United States Fish and Wildlife Service--
Resource Management'' and shall be available to the Secretary, without 
further appropriation, to be used for expenses of processing of such 
non-toxic shot type or coating applications and revising regulations as 
necessary, and shall remain available until expended.

                         National Park Service

                 operation of the national park system

    For expenses necessary for the management, operation, and 
maintenance of areas and facilities administered by the National Park 
Service and for the general administration of the National Park 
Service, $2,323,273,000, of which $9,923,000 for planning and 
interagency coordination in support of Everglades restoration and 
$96,961,000 for maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation projects for 
constructed assets shall remain available until September 30, 2017.

                  national recreation and preservation

    For expenses necessary to carry out recreation programs, natural 
programs, cultural programs, heritage partnership programs, 
environmental compliance and review, international park affairs, and 
grant administration, not otherwise provided for, $63,132,000.

                       historic preservation fund

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the National Historic 
Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.), $61,410,000, to be derived 
from the Historic Preservation Fund and to remain available until 
September 30, 2017, of which $500,000 is for competitive grants for the 
survey and nomination of properties to the National Register of 
Historic Places and as National Historic Landmarks associated with 
communities currently underrepresented, as determined by the Secretary, 
and of which $5,000,000 is for competitive grants to preserve the sites 
and stories of the Civil Rights movement:  Provided, That such 
competitive grants shall be made without imposing the matching 
requirements in Section 102(a)(3) of the National Historic Preservation 
Act (16 U.S.C. 470(a)(3)) to States and Tribes as defined in 16 U.S.C. 
470w, Native Hawaiian organizations, local governments, including 
Certified Local Governments, and nonprofit organizations.

                              construction

    For construction, improvements, repair, or replacement of physical 
facilities, including modifications authorized by section 104 of the 
Everglades National Park Protection and Expansion Act of 1989 (16 
U.S.C. 410r-8), $192,937,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for any 
project initially funded in fiscal year 2016 with a future phase 
indicated in the National Park Service 5-Year Line Item Construction 
Plan, a single procurement may be issued which includes the full scope 
of the project:  Provided further, That the solicitation and contract 
shall contain the clause availability of funds found at 48 CFR 52.232-
18:  Provided further, That National Park Service Donations, Park 
Concessions Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fee Permanent appropriations 
may be made available for the cost of adjustments and changes within 
the original scope of effort for projects funded by the National Park 
Service Construction appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the Interior shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations, in accordance with current reprogramming thresholds, 
prior to making any charges authorized by this section.

                    land and water conservation fund

                              (rescission)

    The contract authority provided for fiscal year 2016 by section 9 
of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-
10a) is rescinded.

                 land acquisition and state assistance

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Land and Water Conservation 
Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 through 11), including administrative 
expenses, and for acquisition of lands or waters, or interest therein, 
in accordance with the statutory authority applicable to the National 
Park Service, $106,275,000, to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund and to remain available until expended, of which 
$55,000,000 is for the State assistance program and of which $8,000,000 
shall be for the American Battlefield Protection Program grants as 
authorized by section 7301 of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 
2009 (Public Law 111-11).

                          centennial challenge

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of section 
814(g) of Public Law 104-333 (16 U.S.C. 1f) relating to challenge cost 
share agreements, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, for 
Centennial Challenge projects and programs:  Provided, That not less 
than 50 percent of the total cost of each project or program shall be 
derived from non-Federal sources in the form of donated cash, assets, 
or a pledge of donation guaranteed by an irrevocable letter of credit.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    In addition to other uses set forth in section 407(d) of Public Law 
105-391, franchise fees credited to a sub-account shall be available 
for expenditure by the Secretary, without further appropriation, for 
use at any unit within the National Park System to extinguish or reduce 
liability for Possessory Interest or leasehold surrender interest. Such 
funds may only be used for this purpose to the extent that the 
benefitting unit anticipated franchise fee receipts over the term of 
the contract at that unit exceed the amount of funds used to extinguish 
or reduce liability. Franchise fees at the benefitting unit shall be 
credited to the sub-account of the originating unit over a period not 
to exceed the term of a single contract at the benefitting unit, in the 
amount of funds so expended to extinguish or reduce liability.
    For the costs of administration of the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund grants authorized by section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mexico 
Energy Security Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-432), the National Park 
Service may retain up to 3 percent of the amounts which are authorized 
to be disbursed under such section, such retained amounts to remain 
available until expended.
    National Park Service funds may be transferred to the Federal 
Highway Administration (FHWA), Department of Transportation, for 
purposes authorized under 23 U.S.C. 204. Transfers may include a 
reasonable amount for FHWA administrative support costs.
    Herein and hereafter any amounts deposited into the National Park 
Service trust fund accounts (31 US.C. 1321(a)(l7)-(18)) shall be 
invested by the Secretary of the Treasury in interest bearing 
obligations of the United States to the extent such amounts are not, in 
his judgment, required to meet current withdrawals:  Provided, That 
interest earned by such investments shall be available for obligation 
without further appropriation, to the benefit of the project.

                    United States Geological Survey

                 surveys, investigations, and research

    For expenses necessary for the United States Geological Survey to 
perform surveys, investigations, and research covering topography, 
geology, hydrology, biology, and the mineral and water resources of the 
United States, its territories and possessions, and other areas as 
authorized by 43 U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to their 
mineral and water resources; give engineering supervision to power 
permittees and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensees; 
administer the minerals exploration program (30 U.S.C. 641); conduct 
inquiries into the economic conditions affecting mining and materials 
processing industries (30 U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) 
and related purposes as authorized by law; and to publish and 
disseminate data relative to the foregoing activities; $1,058,503,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2017; of which $57,637,189 
shall remain available until expended for satellite operations; and of 
which $7,280,000 shall be available until expended for deferred 
maintenance and capital improvement projects that exceed $100,000 in 
cost:  Provided, That none of the funds provided for the ecosystem 
research activity shall be used to conduct new surveys on private 
property, unless specifically authorized in writing by the property 
owner:  Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be 
used to pay more than one-half the cost of topographic mapping or water 
resources data collection and investigations carried on in cooperation 
with States and municipalities.

                       administrative provisions

    From within the amount appropriated for activities of the United 
States Geological Survey such sums as are necessary shall be available 
for contracting for the furnishing of topographic maps and for the 
making of geophysical or other specialized surveys when it is 
administratively determined that such procedures are in the public 
interest; construction and maintenance of necessary buildings and 
appurtenant facilities; acquisition of lands for gauging stations and 
observation wells; expenses of the United States National Committee for 
Geological Sciences; and payment of compensation and expenses of 
persons employed by the Survey duly appointed to represent the United 
States in the negotiation and administration of interstate compacts:  
Provided, That activities funded by appropriations herein made may be 
accomplished through the use of contracts, grants, or cooperative 
agreements as defined in section 6302 of title 31, United States Code:  
Provided further, That the United States Geological Survey may enter 
into contracts or cooperative agreements directly with individuals or 
indirectly with institutions or nonprofit organizations, without regard 
to 41 U.S.C. 6101, for the temporary or intermittent services of 
students or recent graduates, who shall be considered employees for the 
purpose of chapters 57 and 81 of title 5, United States Code, relating 
to compensation for travel and work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 
28, United States Code, relating to tort claims, but shall not be 
considered to be Federal employees for any other purposes.

                   Bureau of Ocean Energy Management

                        ocean energy management

    For expenses necessary for granting leases, easements, rights-of-
way and agreements for use for oil and gas, other minerals, energy, and 
marine-related purposes on the Outer Continental Shelf and approving 
operations related thereto, as authorized by law; for environmental 
studies, as authorized by law; for implementing other laws and to the 
extent provided by Presidential or Secretarial delegation; and for 
matching grants or cooperative agreements, $170,857,000, of which 
$74,235,000, is to remain available until September 30, 2017 and of 
which $96,622,000 is to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That this total appropriation shall be reduced by amounts collected by 
the Secretary and credited to this appropriation from additions to 
receipts resulting from increases to lease rental rates in effect on 
August 5, 1993, and from cost recovery fees from activities conducted 
by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management pursuant to the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act, including studies, assessments, analysis, 
and miscellaneous administrative activities:  Provided further, That 
the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as such collections are 
received during the fiscal year, so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2016 appropriation estimated at not more than $74,235,000:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $3,000 shall be available for reasonable 
expenses related to promoting volunteer beach and marine cleanup 
activities.

             Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement

             offshore safety and environmental enforcement

    For expenses necessary for the regulation of operations related to 
leases, easements, rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil and 
gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-related purposes on the Outer 
Continental Shelf, as authorized by law; for enforcing and implementing 
laws and regulations as authorized by law and to the extent provided by 
Presidential or Secretarial delegation; and for matching grants or 
cooperative agreements, $124,772,000, of which $67,565,000 is to remain 
available until September 30, 2017 and of which $57,207,000 is to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That this total 
appropriation shall be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary 
and credited to this appropriation from additions to receipts resulting 
from increases to lease rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and 
from cost recovery fees from activities conducted by the Bureau of 
Safety and Environmental Enforcement pursuant to the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act, including studies, assessments, analysis, and 
miscellaneous administrative activities:  Provided further, That the 
sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as such collections are 
received during the fiscal year, so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2016 appropriation estimated at not more than $67,565,000.
    For an additional amount, $65,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to be reduced by amounts collected by the Secretary and 
credited to this appropriation, which shall be derived from non-
refundable inspection fees collected in fiscal year 2016, as provided 
in this Act:  Provided, That, to the extent that amounts realized from 
such inspection fees exceed $65,000,000, the amounts realized in excess 
of $65,000,000 shall be credited to this appropriation and remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That, for fiscal year 
2016, not less than 50 percent of the inspection fees expended by the 
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement will be used to fund 
personnel and mission-related costs to expand capacity and expedite the 
orderly development, subject to environmental safeguards, of the Outer 
Continental Shelf pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), including the review of applications for permits 
to drill.

                           oil spill research

    For necessary expenses to carry out title I, section 1016, title 
IV, sections 4202 and 4303, title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of 
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $14,899,000, which shall be derived from 
the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, to remain available until expended.

          Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement

                       regulation and technology

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Surface 
Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, 
$122,747,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, 
That appropriations for the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement may provide for the travel and per diem expenses of State 
and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement sponsored training.
    In addition, for costs to review, administer, and enforce permits 
issued by the Bureau pursuant to section 507 of Public Law 95-87 (30 
U.S.C. 1257), $40,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That fees assessed and collected by the Bureau pursuant to such section 
507 shall be credited to this account as discretionary offsetting 
collections, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced 
as collections are received during the fiscal year, so as to result in 
a fiscal year 2016 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$122,747,000.

                    abandoned mine reclamation fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out title IV of the Surface Mining 
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95-87, $27,388,000, to 
be derived from receipts of the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That, pursuant to Public 
Law 97-365, the Department of the Interior is authorized to use up to 
20 percent from the recovery of the delinquent debt owed to the United 
States Government to pay for contracts to collect these debts:  
Provided further, That funds made available under title IV of Public 
Law 95-87 may be used for any required non-Federal share of the cost of 
projects funded by the Federal Government for the purpose of 
environmental restoration related to treatment or abatement of acid 
mine drainage from abandoned mines:  Provided further, That such 
projects must be consistent with the purposes and priorities of the 
Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act:  Provided further, That 
amounts provided under this heading may be used for the travel and per 
diem expenses of State and tribal personnel attending Office of Surface 
Mining Reclamation and Enforcement sponsored training.

        Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education

                      operation of indian programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the operation of Indian programs, as 
authorized by law, including the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921 (25 
U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 
U.S.C. 2001-2019), and the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (25 
U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), $2,232,419,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017, except as otherwise provided herein; of which not 
to exceed $8,500 may be for official reception and representation 
expenses; of which not to exceed $74,791,000 shall be for welfare 
assistance payments:  Provided, That, in cases of designated Federal 
disasters, the Secretary may exceed such cap, from the amounts provided 
herein, to provide for disaster relief to Indian communities affected 
by the disaster:  Provided further, That federally recognized Indian 
tribes and tribal organizations of federally recognized Indian tribes 
may use their tribal priority allocations for unmet welfare assistance 
costs:  Provided further, That not to exceed $617,370,000 for school 
operations costs of Bureau-funded schools and other education programs 
shall become available on July 1, 2016, and shall remain available 
until September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$43,810,000 shall remain available until expended for housing 
improvement, road maintenance, attorney fees, litigation support, land 
records improvement, and the Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program:  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
but not limited to the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 
450f et seq.) and section 1128 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 
U.S.C. 2008), not to exceed $64,395,000 within and only from such 
amounts made available for school operations shall be available for 
administrative cost grants associated with grants approved prior to 
July 1, 2016:  Provided further, That any forestry funds allocated to a 
federally recognized tribe which remain unobligated as of September 30, 
2017, may be transferred during fiscal year 2018 to an Indian forest 
land assistance account established for the benefit of the holder of 
the funds within the holder's trust fund account:  Provided further, 
That any such unobligated balances not so transferred shall expire on 
September 30, 2018:  Provided further, That, in order to enhance the 
safety of Bureau field employees, the Bureau may use funds to purchase 
uniforms or other identifying articles of clothing for personnel.

                         contract support costs

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract 
support costs associated with Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act agreements with the Bureau of Indian Affairs for fiscal 
year 2016, such sums as may be necessary, which shall be available for 
obligation through September 30, 2017:  Provided, That amounts 
obligated but not expended by a tribe or tribal organization for 
contract support costs for such agreements for the current fiscal year 
shall be applied to contract support costs otherwise due for such 
agreements for subsequent fiscal years:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, no amounts made available 
under this heading shall be available for transfer to another budget 
account.

                              construction

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For construction, repair, improvement, and maintenance of 
irrigation and power systems, buildings, utilities, and other 
facilities, including architectural and engineering services by 
contract; acquisition of lands, and interests in lands; and preparation 
of lands for farming, and for construction of the Navajo Indian 
Irrigation Project pursuant to Public Law 87-483, $135,204,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such amounts as may be 
available for the construction of the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project 
may be transferred to the Bureau of Reclamation:  Provided further, 
That not to exceed 6 percent of contract authority available to the 
Bureau of Indian Affairs from the Federal Highway Trust Fund may be 
used to cover the road program management costs of the Bureau:  
Provided further, That any funds provided for the Safety of Dams 
program pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 13 shall be made available on a 
nonreimbursable basis:  Provided further, That, for fiscal year 2016, 
in implementing new construction or facilities improvement and repair 
project grants in excess of $100,000 that are provided to grant schools 
under Public Law 100-297, as amended, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall use the Administrative and Audit Requirements and Cost Principles 
for Assistance Programs contained in 43 CFR part 12 as the regulatory 
requirements:  Provided further, That such grants shall not be subject 
to section 12.61 of 43 CFR; the Secretary and the grantee shall 
negotiate and determine a schedule of payments for the work to be 
performed:  Provided further, That, in considering grant applications, 
the Secretary shall consider whether such grantee would be deficient in 
assuring that the construction projects conform to applicable building 
standards and codes and Federal, tribal, or State health and safety 
standards as required by 25 U.S.C. 2005(b), with respect to 
organizational and financial management capabilities:  Provided 
further, That, if the Secretary declines a grant application, the 
Secretary shall follow the requirements contained in 25 U.S.C. 2504(f): 
 Provided further, That any disputes between the Secretary and any 
grantee concerning a grant shall be subject to the disputes provision 
in 25 U.S.C. 2507(e):  Provided further, That, in order to ensure 
timely completion of construction projects, the Secretary may assume 
control of a project and all funds related to the project, if, within 
18 months of the date of enactment of this Act, any grantee receiving 
funds appropriated in this Act or in any prior Act, has not completed 
the planning and design phase of the project and commenced 
construction:  Provided further, That this appropriation may be 
reimbursed from the Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians 
appropriation for the appropriate share of construction costs for space 
expansion needed in agency offices to meet trust reform implementation.

 indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to 
                                indians

    For payments and necessary administrative expenses for 
implementation of Indian land and water claim settlements pursuant to 
Public Laws 99-264, 100-580, 101-618, 111-11, and 111-291, and for 
implementation of other land and water rights settlements, $40,655,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                 indian guaranteed loan program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans and insured loans, $7,748,000, of 
which $1,062,000 is for administrative expenses, as authorized by the 
Indian Financing Act of 1974:  Provided, That such costs, including the 
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That these funds 
are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is 
to be guaranteed or insured, not to exceed $113,804,510.

                       administrative provisions

    The Bureau of Indian Affairs may carry out the operation of Indian 
programs by direct expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, 
compacts, and grants, either directly or in cooperation with States and 
other organizations.
    Notwithstanding 25 U.S.C. 15, the Bureau of Indian Affairs may 
contract for services in support of the management, operation, and 
maintenance of the Power Division of the San Carlos Irrigation Project.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs for central office oversight and Executive 
Direction and Administrative Services (except executive direction and 
administrative services funding for Tribal Priority Allocations, 
regional offices, and facilities operations and maintenance) shall be 
available for contracts, grants, compacts, or cooperative agreements 
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs under the provisions of the Indian 
Self-Determination Act or the Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-413).
    In the event any tribe returns appropriations made available by 
this Act to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, this action shall not 
diminish the Federal Government's trust responsibility to that tribe, 
or the government-to-government relationship between the United States 
and that tribe, or that tribe's ability to access future 
appropriations.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds available to 
the Bureau of Indian Education, other than the amounts provided herein 
for assistance to public schools under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be 
available to support the operation of any elementary or secondary 
school in the State of Alaska.
    No funds available to the Bureau of Indian Education shall be used 
to support expanded grades for any school or dormitory beyond the grade 
structure in place or approved by the Secretary of the Interior at each 
school in the Bureau of Indian Education school system as of October 1, 
1995, except that the Secretary of the Interior may waive this 
prohibition to support expansion of up to one additional grade when the 
Secretary determines such waiver is needed to support accomplishment of 
the mission of the Bureau of Indian Education. Appropriations made 
available in this or any prior Act for schools funded by the Bureau 
shall be available, in accordance with the Bureau's funding formula, 
only to the schools in the Bureau school system as of September 1, 
1996, and to any school or school program that was reinstated in fiscal 
year 2012. Funds made available under this Act may not be used to 
establish a charter school at a Bureau-funded school (as that term is 
defined in section 1141 of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 
2021)), except that a charter school that is in existence on the date 
of the enactment of this Act and that has operated at a Bureau-funded 
school before September 1, 1999, may continue to operate during that 
period, but only if the charter school pays to the Bureau a pro rata 
share of funds to reimburse the Bureau for the use of the real and 
personal property (including buses and vans), the funds of the charter 
school are kept separate and apart from Bureau funds, and the Bureau 
does not assume any obligation for charter school programs of the State 
in which the school is located if the charter school loses such 
funding. Employees of Bureau-funded schools sharing a campus with a 
charter school and performing functions related to the charter school's 
operation and employees of a charter school shall not be treated as 
Federal employees for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United 
States Code.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including section 113 
of title I of appendix C of Public Law 106-113, if in fiscal year 2003 
or 2004 a grantee received indirect and administrative costs pursuant 
to a distribution formula based on section 5(f) of Public Law 101-301, 
the Secretary shall continue to distribute indirect and administrative 
cost funds to such grantee using the section 5(f) distribution formula.
    Funds available under this Act may not be used to establish 
satellite locations of schools in the Bureau school system as of 
September 1, 1996, except that the Secretary may waive this prohibition 
in order for an Indian tribe to provide language and cultural immersion 
educational programs for non-public schools located within the 
jurisdictional area of the tribal government which exclusively serve 
tribal members, do not include grades beyond those currently served at 
the existing Bureau-funded school, provide an educational environment 
with educator presence and academic facilities comparable to the 
Bureau-funded school, comply with all applicable Tribal, Federal, or 
State health and safety standards, and the Americans with Disabilities 
Act, and demonstrate the benefits of establishing operations at a 
satellite location in lieu of incurring extraordinary costs, such as 
for transportation or other impacts to students such as those caused by 
busing students extended distances:  Provided, That no funds available 
under this Act may be used to fund operations, maintenance, 
rehabilitation, construction or other facilities-related costs for such 
assets that are not owned by the Bureau:  Provided further, That the 
term ``satellite school'' means a school location physically separated 
from the existing Bureau school by more than 50 miles but that forms 
part of the existing school in all other respects.

                          Departmental Offices

                        Office of the Secretary

                        departmental operations

    For necessary expenses for management of the Department of the 
Interior, including the collection and disbursement of royalties, fees, 
and other mineral revenue proceeds, and for grants and cooperative 
agreements, as authorized by law, $265,263,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017; of which not to exceed $15,000 may be for 
official reception and representation expenses; and of which up to 
$1,000,000 shall be available for workers compensation payments and 
unemployment compensation payments associated with the orderly closure 
of the United States Bureau of Mines; and of which $12,000,000 for the 
Office of Valuation Services is to be derived from the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund and shall remain available until expended; and of 
which $38,300,000 shall remain available until expended for the purpose 
of mineral revenue management activities:  Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $15,000 under this heading 
shall be available for refunds of overpayments in connection with 
certain Indian leases in which the Secretary concurred with the claimed 
refund due, to pay amounts owed to Indian allottees or tribes, or to 
correct prior unrecoverable erroneous payments.

                       administrative provisions

    For fiscal year 2016, up to $400,000 of the payments authorized by 
the Act of October 20, 1976 (31 U.S.C. 6901-6907) may be retained for 
administrative expenses of the Payments in Lieu of Taxes Program:  
Provided, That no payment shall be made pursuant to that Act to 
otherwise eligible units of local government if the computed amount of 
the payment is less than $100:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
may reduce the payment authorized by 31 U.S.C. 6901-6907 for an 
individual county by the amount necessary to correct prior year 
overpayments to that county:  Provided further, That the amount needed 
to correct a prior year underpayment to an individual county shall be 
paid from any reductions for overpayments to other counties and the 
amount necessary to cover any remaining underpayment is hereby 
appropriated and shall be paid to individual counties.

                            Insular Affairs

                       assistance to territories

    For expenses necessary for assistance to territories under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior and other jurisdictions 
identified in section 104(e) of Public Law 108-188, $85,976,000, of 
which: (1) $76,528,000 shall remain available until expended for 
territorial assistance, including general technical assistance, 
maintenance assistance, disaster assistance, coral reef initiative 
activities, and brown tree snake control and research; grants to the 
judiciary in American Samoa for compensation and expenses, as 
authorized by law (48 U.S.C. 1661(c)); grants to the Government of 
American Samoa, in addition to current local revenues, for construction 
and support of governmental functions; grants to the Government of the 
Virgin Islands as authorized by law; grants to the Government of Guam, 
as authorized by law; and grants to the Government of the Northern 
Mariana Islands as authorized by law (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 272); 
and (2) $9,448,000 shall be available until September 30, 2017, for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of Insular Affairs:  Provided, That 
all financial transactions of the territorial and local governments 
herein provided for, including such transactions of all agencies or 
instrumentalities established or used by such governments, may be 
audited by the Government Accountability Office, at its discretion, in 
accordance with chapter 35 of title 31, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That Northern Mariana Islands Covenant grant funding shall be 
provided according to those terms of the Agreement of the Special 
Representatives on Future United States Financial Assistance for the 
Northern Mariana Islands approved by Public Law 104-134:  Provided 
further, That the funds for the program of operations and maintenance 
improvement are appropriated to institutionalize routine operations and 
maintenance improvement of capital infrastructure with territorial 
participation and cost sharing to be determined by the Secretary based 
on the grantee's commitment to timely maintenance of its capital 
assets:  Provided further, That any appropriation for disaster 
assistance under this heading in this Act or previous appropriations 
Acts may be used as non-Federal matching funds for the purpose of 
hazard mitigation grants provided pursuant to section 404 of the Robert 
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5170c).

                      compact of free association

    For grants and necessary expenses, $3,318,000, to remain available 
until expended, as provided for in sections 221(a)(2) and 233 of the 
Compact of Free Association for the Republic of Palau; and section 
221(a)(2) of the Compacts of Free Association for the Government of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of 
Micronesia, as authorized by Public Law 99-658 and Public Law 108-188.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    At the request of the Governor of Guam, the Secretary may transfer 
discretionary funds or mandatory funds provided under section 104(e) of 
Public Law 108-188 and Public Law 104-134, that are allocated for Guam, 
to the Secretary of Agriculture for the subsidy cost of direct or 
guaranteed loans, plus not to exceed three percent of the amount of the 
subsidy transferred for the cost of loan administration, for the 
purposes authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and 
section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act 
for construction and repair projects in Guam, and such funds shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That such 
loans or loan guarantees may be made without regard to the population 
of the area, credit elsewhere requirements, and restrictions on the 
types of eligible entities under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 
and section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act:  Provided further, That any funds transferred to the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall be in addition to funds otherwise made available to 
make or guarantee loans under such authorities.

                        Office of the Solicitor

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Solicitor, $63,800,000.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$50,047,000.

           Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians

                         federal trust programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the operation of trust programs for Indians by direct 
expenditure, contracts, cooperative agreements, compacts, and grants, 
$139,029,000, to remain available until expended, of which not to 
exceed $22,120,000 from this or any other Act, may be available for 
historical accounting:  Provided, That funds for trust management 
improvements and litigation support may, as needed, be transferred to 
or merged with the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian 
Education, ``Operation of Indian Programs'' account; the Office of the 
Solicitor, ``Salaries and Expenses'' account; and the Office of the 
Secretary, ``Departmental Operations'' account:  Provided further, That 
funds made available through contracts or grants obligated during 
fiscal year 2016, as authorized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of 
1975 (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), shall remain available until expended by 
the contractor or grantee:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary shall not be required to provide 
a quarterly statement of performance for any Indian trust account that 
has not had activity for at least 15 months and has a balance of $15 or 
less:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall issue an annual 
account statement and maintain a record of any such accounts and shall 
permit the balance in each such account to be withdrawn upon the 
express written request of the account holder:  Provided further, That 
not to exceed $50,000 is available for the Secretary to make payments 
to correct administrative errors of either disbursements from or 
deposits to Individual Indian Money or Tribal accounts after September 
30, 2002:  Provided further, That erroneous payments that are recovered 
shall be credited to and remain available in this account for this 
purpose:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall not be required to 
reconcile Special Deposit Accounts with a balance of less than $500 
unless the Office of the Special Trustee receives proof of ownership 
from a Special Deposit Accounts claimant.

                        Department-wide Programs

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for fire preparedness, fire suppression 
operations, fire science and research, emergency rehabilitation, 
hazardous fuels management activities, and rural fire assistance by the 
Department of the Interior, $908,745,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which not to exceed $6,427,000 shall be for the renovation 
or construction of fire facilities:  Provided, That such funds are also 
available for repayment of advances to other appropriation accounts 
from which funds were previously transferred for such purposes:  
Provided further, That, of the funds provided, $170,000,000 is for 
hazardous fuels management activities:  Provided further, That, of the 
funds provided, $18,970,000 is for burned area rehabilitation:  
Provided further, That persons hired pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be 
furnished subsistence and lodging without cost from funds available 
from this appropriation:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 42 
U.S.C. 1856d, sums received by a bureau or office of the Department of 
the Interior for fire protection rendered pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1856 et 
seq., protection of United States property, may be credited to the 
appropriation from which funds were expended to provide that 
protection, and are available without fiscal year limitation:  Provided 
further, That, using the amounts designated under this title of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Interior may enter into procurement 
contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements, for hazardous fuels 
management and resilient landscapes activities, and for training and 
monitoring associated with such hazardous fuels management and 
resilient landscapes activities on Federal land, or on adjacent non-
Federal land for activities that benefit resources on Federal land:  
Provided further, That the costs of implementing any cooperative 
agreement between the Federal Government and any non-Federal entity may 
be shared, as mutually agreed on by the affected parties:  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding requirements of the Competition in 
Contracting Act, the Secretary, for purposes of hazardous fuels 
management and resilient landscapes activities, may obtain maximum 
practicable competition among: (1) local private, nonprofit, or 
cooperative entities; (2) Youth Conservation Corps crews, Public Lands 
Corps (Public Law 109-154), or related partnerships with State, local, 
or nonprofit youth groups; (3) small or micro-businesses; or (4) other 
entities that will hire or train locally a significant percentage, 
defined as 50 percent or more, of the project workforce to complete 
such contracts:  Provided further, That, in implementing this section, 
the Secretary shall develop written guidance to field units to ensure 
accountability and consistent application of the authorities provided 
herein:  Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading 
may be used to reimburse the United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
and the National Marine Fisheries Service for the costs of carrying out 
their responsibilities under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to consult and conference, as required by section 
7 of such Act, in connection with wildland fire management activities:  
Provided further, That the Secretary of the Interior may use wildland 
fire appropriations to enter into leases of real property with local 
governments, at or below fair market value, to construct capitalized 
improvements for fire facilities on such leased properties, including 
but not limited to fire guard stations, retardant stations, and other 
initial attack and fire support facilities, and to make advance 
payments for any such lease or for construction activity associated 
with the lease:  Provided further, That the Secretary of the Interior 
and the Secretary of Agriculture may authorize the transfer of funds 
appropriated for wildland fire management, in an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $50,000,000, between the Departments when such transfers 
would facilitate and expedite wildland fire management programs and 
projects:  Provided further, That funds provided for wildfire 
suppression shall be available for support of Federal emergency 
response actions:  Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be available for assistance to or through the Department 
of State in connection with forest and rangeland research, technical 
information, and assistance in foreign countries, and, with the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall be available to support 
forestry, wildland fire management, and related natural resource 
activities outside the United States and its territories and 
possessions, including technical assistance, education and training, 
and cooperation with United States and international organizations.
    For an additional amount, $200,000,000 for wildfire suppression 
operations to meet the emergency and unpredictable aspects of wildland 
firefighting including support, response, and emergency stabilization 
activities, other emergency management activities, and funds necessary 
to repay any transfers needed for these costs, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such funds are also available for 
transfer to other appropriations accounts to repay amounts previously 
transferred for wildlife suppression:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    central hazardous materials fund

    For necessary expenses of the Department of the Interior and any of 
its component offices and bureaus for the response action, including 
associated activities, performed pursuant to the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 
et seq.), $10,011,000, to remain available until expended.

           Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration

                natural resource damage assessment fund

    To conduct natural resource damage assessment, restoration 
activities, and onshore oil spill preparedness by the Department of the 
Interior necessary to carry out the provisions of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 
et seq.), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et 
seq.), the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), and 
Public Law 101-337 (16 U.S.C. 19jj et seq.), $7,767,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          working capital fund

    For the operation and maintenance of a departmental financial and 
business management system, information technology improvements of 
general benefit to the Department, and the consolidation of facilities 
and operations throughout the Department, $57,100,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this Act or any other Act may be used to establish 
reserves in the Working Capital Fund account other than for accrued 
annual leave and depreciation of equipment without prior approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate:  Provided further, That the Secretary may assess reasonable 
charges to State, local and tribal government employees for training 
services provided by the National Indian Program Training Center, other 
than training related to Public Law 93-638:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may lease or otherwise provide space and related facilities, 
equipment or professional services of the National Indian Program 
Training Center to State, local and tribal government employees or 
persons or organizations engaged in cultural, educational, or 
recreational activities (as defined in section 3306(a) of title 40, 
United States Code) at the prevailing rate for similar space, 
facilities, equipment, or services in the vicinity of the National 
Indian Program Training Center:  Provided further, That all funds 
received pursuant to the two preceding provisos shall be credited to 
this account, shall be available until expended, and shall be used by 
the Secretary for necessary expenses of the National Indian Program 
Training Center:  Provided further, That the Secretary may enter into 
grants and cooperative agreements to support the Office of Natural 
Resource Revenue's collection and disbursement of royalties, fees, and 
other mineral revenue proceeds, as authorized by law.

                        administrative provision

    There is hereby authorized for acquisition from available resources 
within the Working Capital Fund, aircraft which may be obtained by 
donation, purchase or through available excess surplus property:  
Provided, That existing aircraft being replaced may be sold, with 
proceeds derived or trade-in value used to offset the purchase price 
for the replacement aircraft.

             General Provisions, Department of the Interior

                     (including transfers of funds)

               emergency transfer authority--intra-bureau

    Sec. 101.  Appropriations made in this title shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer (within each bureau or office), with the 
approval of the Secretary, for the emergency reconstruction, 
replacement, or repair of aircraft, buildings, utilities, or other 
facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or 
other unavoidable causes:  Provided, That no funds shall be made 
available under this authority until funds specifically made available 
to the Department of the Interior for emergencies shall have been 
exhausted:  Provided further, That all funds used pursuant to this 
section must be replenished by a supplemental appropriation, which must 
be requested as promptly as possible.

             emergency transfer authority--department-wide

    Sec. 102.  The Secretary may authorize the expenditure or transfer 
of any no year appropriation in this title, in addition to the amounts 
included in the budget programs of the several agencies, for the 
suppression or emergency prevention of wildland fires on or threatening 
lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior; for the 
emergency rehabilitation of burned-over lands under its jurisdiction; 
for emergency actions related to potential or actual earthquakes, 
floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; for contingency 
planning subsequent to actual oil spills; for response and natural 
resource damage assessment activities related to actual oil spills or 
releases of hazardous substances into the environment; for the 
prevention, suppression, and control of actual or potential grasshopper 
and Mormon cricket outbreaks on lands under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary, pursuant to the authority in section 417(b) of Public Law 
106-224 (7 U.S.C. 7717(b)); for emergency reclamation projects under 
section 410 of Public Law 95-87; and shall transfer, from any no year 
funds available to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and 
Enforcement, such funds as may be necessary to permit assumption of 
regulatory authority in the event a primacy State is not carrying out 
the regulatory provisions of the Surface Mining Act:  Provided, That 
appropriations made in this title for wildland fire operations shall be 
available for the payment of obligations incurred during the preceding 
fiscal year, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for 
destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other equipment in connection 
with their use for wildland fire operations, such reimbursement to be 
credited to appropriations currently available at the time of receipt 
thereof:  Provided further, That, for wildland fire operations, no 
funds shall be made available under this authority until the Secretary 
determines that funds appropriated for ``wildland fire operations'' 
shall be exhausted within 30 days:  Provided further, That all funds 
used pursuant to this section must be replenished by a supplemental 
appropriation, which must be requested as promptly as possible:  
Provided further, That such replenishment funds shall be used to 
reimburse, on a pro rata basis, accounts from which emergency funds 
were transferred.

                        authorized use of funds

    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made to the Department of the Interior in 
this title shall be available for services as authorized by section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, when authorized by the Secretary, 
in total amount not to exceed $500,000; purchase and replacement of 
motor vehicles, including specially equipped law enforcement vehicles; 
hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; purchase of reprints; payment for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; and the payment of dues, when authorized by 
the Secretary, for library membership in societies or associations 
which issue publications to members only or at a price to members lower 
than to subscribers who are not members.

            authorized use of funds, indian trust management

    Sec. 104.  Appropriations made in this Act under the headings 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, and Office of 
the Special Trustee for American Indians and any unobligated balances 
from prior appropriations Acts made under the same headings shall be 
available for expenditure or transfer for Indian trust management and 
reform activities. Total funding for historical accounting activities 
shall not exceed amounts specifically designated in this Act for such 
purpose.

           redistribution of funds, bureau of indian affairs

    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to redistribute any Tribal 
Priority Allocation funds, including tribal base funds, to alleviate 
tribal funding inequities by transferring funds to address identified, 
unmet needs, dual enrollment, overlapping service areas or inaccurate 
distribution methodologies. No tribe shall receive a reduction in 
Tribal Priority Allocation funds of more than 10 percent in fiscal year 
2016. Under circumstances of dual enrollment, overlapping service areas 
or inaccurate distribution methodologies, the 10 percent limitation 
does not apply.

                 ellis, governors, and liberty islands

    Sec. 106.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire lands, waters, or 
interests therein including the use of all or part of any pier, dock, 
or landing within the State of New York and the State of New Jersey, 
for the purpose of operating and maintaining facilities in the support 
of transportation and accommodation of visitors to Ellis, Governors, 
and Liberty Islands, and of other program and administrative 
activities, by donation or with appropriated funds, including franchise 
fees (and other monetary consideration), or by exchange; and the 
Secretary is authorized to negotiate and enter into leases, subleases, 
concession contracts or other agreements for the use of such facilities 
on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may determine reasonable.

                outer continental shelf inspection fees

    Sec. 107. (a) In fiscal year 2016, the Secretary shall collect a 
nonrefundable inspection fee, which shall be deposited in the 
``Offshore Safety and Environmental Enforcement'' account, from the 
designated operator for facilities subject to inspection under 43 
U.S.C. 1348(c).
    (b) Annual fees shall be collected for facilities that are above 
the waterline, excluding drilling rigs, and are in place at the start 
of the fiscal year. Fees for fiscal year 2016 shall be:
            (1) $10,500 for facilities with no wells, but with 
        processing equipment or gathering lines;
            (2) $17,000 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells, with any 
        combination of active or inactive wells; and
            (3) $31,500 for facilities with more than 10 wells, with 
        any combination of active or inactive wells.
    (c) Fees for drilling rigs shall be assessed for all inspections 
completed in fiscal year 2016. Fees for fiscal year 2016 shall be:
            (1) $30,500 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
        depths of 500 feet or more; and
            (2) $16,700 per inspection for rigs operating in water 
        depths of less than 500 feet.
    (d) The Secretary shall bill designated operators under subsection 
(b) within 60 days, with payment required within 30 days of billing. 
The Secretary shall bill designated operators under subsection (c) 
within 30 days of the end of the month in which the inspection 
occurred, with payment required within 30 days of billing.

     bureau of ocean energy management, regulation and enforcement 
                             reorganization

    Sec. 108.  The Secretary of the Interior, in order to implement a 
reorganization of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and 
Enforcement, may transfer funds among and between the successor offices 
and bureaus affected by the reorganization only in conformance with the 
reprogramming guidelines described in the report accompanying this Act.

  contracts and agreements for wild horse and burro holding facilities

    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Interior may enter into multiyear cooperative 
agreements with nonprofit organizations and other appropriate entities, 
and may enter into multiyear contracts in accordance with the 
provisions of section 304B of the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 254c) (except that the 5-year term 
restriction in subsection (d) shall not apply), for the long-term care 
and maintenance of excess wild free roaming horses and burros by such 
organizations or entities on private land. Such cooperative agreements 
and contracts may not exceed 10 years, subject to renewal at the 
discretion of the Secretary.

                       reissuance of final rules

    Sec. 110.  Before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
reissue the final rule published on December 28, 2011 (76 Fed. Reg. 
81666 et seq.) and the final rule published on September 10, 2012 (77 
Fed. 7 Reg. 55530 et seq.), without regard to any other provision of 
statute or regulation that applies to issuance of such rules. Such 
reissuances (including this section) shall not be subject to judicial 
review.

                       mass marking of salmonids

    Sec. 111.  The United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall, in 
carrying out its responsibilities to protect threatened and endangered 
species of salmon, implement a system of mass marking of salmonid 
stocks, intended for harvest, that are released from federally operated 
or federally financed hatcheries including but not limited to fish 
releases of coho, chinook, and steelhead species. Marked fish must have 
a visible mark that can be readily identified by commercial and 
recreational fishers.

                      prohibition on use of funds

    Sec. 112. (a) Any proposed new use of the Arizona & California 
Railroad Company's Right of Way for conveyance of water shall not 
proceed unless the Secretary of the Interior certifies that the 
proposed new use is within the scope of the Right of Way as interpreted 
by the Department's Office of the Solicitor's opinion, Memorandum M-
37025, issued on November 4, 2011.
    (b) No funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the 
Department of the Interior may be used, in relation to any proposal to 
export groundwater for municipal use, for approval of any right-of-way 
or similar authorization on the Mojave National Preserve or lands 
managed by the Needles Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management, 
or for carrying out any activities associated with such right-of-way or 
similar approval.

                           republic of palau

    Sec. 113. (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (c), the United 
States Government, through the Secretary of the Interior shall provide 
to the Government of Palau for fiscal year 2016 grants in amounts equal 
to the annual amounts specified in subsections (a), (c), and (d) of 
section 211 of the Compact of Free Association between the Government 
of the United States of America and the Government of Palau (48 U.S.C. 
1931 note) (referred to in this section as the ``Compact'').
    (b) Programmatic Assistance.--Subject to subsection (c), the United 
States shall provide programmatic assistance to the Republic of Palau 
for fiscal year 2016 in amounts equal to the amounts provided in 
subsections (a) and (b)(1) of section 221 of the Compact.
    (c) Limitations on Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--The grants and programmatic assistance 
        provided under subsections (a) and (b) shall be provided to the 
        same extent and in the same manner as the grants and assistance 
        were provided in fiscal year 2009.
            (2) Trust fund.--If the Government of Palau withdraws more 
        than $5,000,000 from the trust fund established under section 
        211(f) of the Compact, amounts to be provided under subsections 
        (a) and (b) shall be withheld from the Government of Palau.

                          statewide variances

    Sec. 114.  On land under the jurisdiction of a State or federally 
recognized Indian tribe, if State or tribal laws or regulations are in 
place regarding the process generally understood to encompass hydraulic 
fracturing or well stimulation for the purpose of production of natural 
gas and oil, the Bureau of Land Management shall issue to that State or 
Indian tribe a statewide variance for all wells from the requirements 
of the final rule entitled ``Oil and Gas; Hydraulic Fracturing on 
Federal and Indian Lands'' (80 Fed. Reg. 16128 (March 26, 2015)).

                     wild lands funding prohibition

    Sec. 115.  None of the funds made available in this Act or any 
other Act may be used to implement, administer, or enforce Secretarial 
Order No. 3310 issued by the Secretary of the Interior on December 22, 
2010:  Provided, That nothing in this section shall restrict the 
Secretary's authorities under sections 201 and 202 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1711 and 1712).

                          volunteers in parks

    Sec. 116.  Section 4 of Public Law 91-357 (16 U.S.C. 18j), as 
amended, is further amended by striking ``$5,000,000'' and inserting 
``$10,000,000''.

              contracts and agreements with indian affairs

    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
fiscal year 2016, in carrying out work involving cooperation with 
State, local, and tribal governments or any political subdivision 
thereof, Indian Affairs may record obligations against accounts 
receivable from any such entities, except that total obligations at the 
end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources 
available at the end of the fiscal year.

                        extension of authorities

    Sec. 118.  Division II of Public Law 104-333 (16 U.S.C. 461 note), 
as amended, is further amended in sections 208, 310, and 607 by 
striking ``2015'' and inserting ``2021''.

                              sage-grouse

    Sec. 119.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used by the Secretary of the Interior to write or issue 
pursuant to section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
1533)--
                    (1) a proposed rule for greater sage-grouse 
                (Centrocercus urophasianus);
                    (2) a proposed rule for the Columbia basin distinct 
                population segment of greater sage-grouse;
                    (3) a final rule for the bi-state distinct 
                population segment of greater sage-grouse; or
                    (4) a final rule for Gunnison sage-grouse 
                (Centrocercus minimus).

                    offshore pay authority extension

    Sec. 120.  Section 117 of Division G of Public Law 113-76 is 
amended by striking ``and 2015'' and inserting ``through 2016''.

                    onshore pay authority extension

    Sec. 121.  Section 123 of Division G of Public Law 113-76 is 
amended by striking ``and 2015'' and inserting ``through 2016''.

                 national park service affiliated areas

    Sec. 122. (a) Section 5 of Public Law 95-348 is amended by striking 
``not to exceed $3,000,000'' and inserting ``such sums as may be 
necessary for the purposes of this Section''.
    (b) Section 204 of Public Law 93-486, as amended by section 1(3) of 
Public Law 100-355, is further amended by striking ``, but not to 
exceed $2,000,000''.

   wildlife restoration extension of investment of unexpended amounts

    Sec. 123.  Section 3(b)(2)(C) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669b(b)(2)(C)) is amended by striking 
``2016'' and inserting ``2017''.

        department of the interior experienced services program

    Sec. 124. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law relating 
to Federal grants and cooperative agreements, the Secretary of the 
Interior is authorized to make grants to, or enter into cooperative 
agreements with, private nonprofit organizations designated by the 
Secretary of Labor under Title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 to 
utilize the talents of older Americans in programs authorized by other 
provisions of law administered by the Secretary and consistent with 
such provisions of law.
    (b) Prior to awarding any grant or agreement under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall ensure that the agreement would not--
            (1) result in the displacement of individuals currently 
        employed by the Department, including partial displacement 
        through reduction of non-overtime hours, wages, or employment 
        benefits;
            (2) result in the use of an individual under the Department 
        of the Interior Experienced Services Program for a job or 
        function in a case in which a Federal employee is in a layoff 
        status from the same or substantially equivalent job within the 
        Department; or
            (3) affect existing contracts for services.

         national defense authorization act technical amendment

    Sec. 125.  Section 3096(2) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 is 
amended by inserting ``for fiscal year 2015'' after ``$37,000,000''.

                roosevelt campobello international park

    Sec. 126.  The annual budget request submitted by the Roosevelt 
Campobello International Park Commission shall hereafter be directly 
submitted to Congress unchanged by the National Park Service. The 
Service may comment on the Commission's budget request with such 
additions and subtractions that the Service may propose. There shall be 
no diminution of the amount appropriated for the Commission, unless 
specified by Congress in the annual appropriations bill or the report 
to accompany the bill.

                      king cove road land exchange

    Sec. 127. (a) Finding.--Congress finds that the land exchange 
required under this section (including the designation of the road 
corridor and the construction of the road along the road corridor) is 
in the public interest.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal land.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Federal land'' means 
                the approximately 206 acres of Federal land located 
                within the Refuge as depicted on the map entitled 
                ``Project Area Map'' and dated September 2012.
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``Federal land'' includes 
                the 131 acres of Federal land in the Wilderness, which 
                shall be used for the road corridor along which the 
                road is to be constructed in accordance with subsection 
                (c)(2).
            (2) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the approximately 43,093 acres of land owned by the State as 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Project Area Map'' and dated 
        September 2012.
            (3) Refuge.--The term ``Refuge'' means the Izembek National 
        Wildlife Refuge in the State.
            (4) Road corridor.--The term ``road corridor'' means the 
        road corridor designated under subsection (c)(2)(A).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (6) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Alaska.
            (7) Wilderness.--The term ``Wilderness'' means the Izembek 
        Wilderness designated by section 702(6) of the Alaska National 
        Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public 
        Law 96-487).
    (c) Land Exchange Required.--
            (1) In general.--If the State offers to convey to the 
        Secretary all right, title, and interest of the State in and to 
        the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall convey to the State 
        all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
        the Federal Land.
            (2) Use of federal land.--The Federal land shall be 
        conveyed to the State for the purposes of--
                    (A) designating a road corridor through the Refuge; 
                and
                    (B) constructing a noncommercial single-lane gravel 
                road along the road corridor between the cities of King 
                Cove and Cold Bay in the State to provide access to 
                emergency medical services via the all-weather airport 
                in Cold Bay.
            (3) Valuation, appraisals, and equalization.--
                    (A) In general.--The value of the Federal land and 
                the non-Federal land to be exchanged under this 
                section--
                            (i) shall be equal, as determined by 
                        appraisals conducted in accordance with 
                        subparagraph (B); or
                            (ii) if not equal, shall be equalized in 
                        accordance with subparagraph (C).
                    (B) Appraisals.--
                            (i) In general.--As soon as practicable 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                        Secretary and State shall select an appraiser 
                        to conduct appraisals of the Federal land and 
                        non-Federal land.
                            (ii) Requirements.--The appraisals required 
                        under clause (i) shall be conducted in 
                        accordance with nationally recognized appraisal 
                        standards, including--
                                    (I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards 
                                for Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                                    (II) the Uniform Standards of 
                                Professional Appraisal Practice.
                    (C) Equalization.--
                            (i) Surplus of federal land.--If the final 
                        appraised value of the Federal land exceeds the 
                        final appraised value of the non-Federal land 
                        to be conveyed under the land exchange under 
                        this section, the value of the Federal land and 
                        non-Federal land shall be equalized--
                                    (I) by conveying additional non-
                                Federal land in the State to the 
                                Secretary, subject to the approval of 
                                the Secretary;
                                    (II) by the State making a cash 
                                payment to the United States; or
                                    (III) by using a combination of the 
                                methods described in subclauses (I) and 
                                (II).
                            (ii) Surplus of non-federal land.--If the 
                        final appraised value of the non-Federal land 
                        exceeds the final appraised value of the 
                        Federal land to be conveyed under the land 
                        exchange under this section, the value of the 
                        Federal land and non-Federal land shall be 
                        equalized by the State adjusting the acreage of 
                        the non-Federal land to be conveyed.
                            (iii) Amount of payment.--Notwithstanding 
                        section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and 
                        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)), the 
                        Secretary may accept a payment under clause 
                        (i)(II) in excess of 25 percent of the value of 
                        the Federal land conveyed.
            (4) Administration.--On completion of the exchange of 
        Federal land and non-Federal land under this section--
                    (A) the boundary of the Wilderness shall be 
                modified to exclude the Federal land; and
                    (B) the non-Federal land shall be--
                            (i) added to the Wilderness; and
                            (ii) administered in accordance with--
                                    (I) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
                                1131 et seq.); and
                                    (II) other applicable laws.
            (5) Deadline.--The land exchange under this section shall 
        be completed not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
        of this Act.
    (d) Route of Road Corridor.--The route of the road corridor shall 
follow the southern road alignment as described in the alternative 
entitled ``Alternative 2-Land Exchange and Southern Road Alignment'' in 
the final environmental impact statement entitled ``Izembek National 
Wildlife Refuge Land Exchange/Road Corridor Final Environmental Impact 
Statement'' and dated February 5, 2013.
    (e) Requirements Relating to Road.--The requirements relating to 
usage, barrier cables, and dimensions and the limitation on support 
facilities under subsections (a) and (b) of section 6403 of the Omnibus 
Public Land Management Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1180) 
shall apply to the road constructed in the road corridor.
    (f) Effect.--The exchange of Federal land and non-Federal land 
under this section shall not constitute a major Federal action for 
purposes of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
4321 et seq.).

                         lesser prairie chicken

    Sec. 128.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used to implement or enforce the threatened species listing of the 
lesser prairie chicken under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).

                                TITLE II

                    ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                         Science and Technology

    For science and technology, including research and development 
activities, which shall include research and development activities 
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980; necessary expenses for personnel and related 
costs and travel expenses; procurement of laboratory equipment and 
supplies; and other operating expenses in support of research and 
development, $703,958,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2017:  Provided, That of the funds included under this heading, 
$4,100,000 shall be for Research: National Priorities as specified in 
the report accompanying this Act.

                 Environmental Programs and Management

    For environmental programs and management, including necessary 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for personnel and related costs 
and travel expenses; hire of passenger motor vehicles; hire, 
maintenance, and operation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; library 
memberships in societies or associations which issue publications to 
members only or at a price to members lower than to subscribers who are 
not members; administrative costs of the brownfields program under the 
Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act of 
2002; and not to exceed $9,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $2,561,498,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That of the funds included under this 
heading, $15,000,000 shall be for Environmental Protection: National 
Priorities as specified in the report accompanying this Act:  Provided 
further, That of the funds included under this heading, $432,493,000 
shall be for Geographic Programs specified in the report accompanying 
this Act.

            Hazardous Waste Electronic Manifest System Fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 3024 of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6939g), including the development, operation, 
maintenance, and upgrading of the hazardous waste electronic manifest 
system established by such section, $3,786,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$41,489,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

                        Buildings and Facilities

    For construction, repair, improvement, extension, alteration, and 
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the 
Environmental Protection Agency, $42,317,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                     Hazardous Substance Superfund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including 
sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5), (c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9611) 
$1,106,809,000, to remain available until expended, consisting of such 
sums as are available in the Trust Fund on September 30, 2015, as 
authorized by section 517(a) of the Superfund Amendments and 
Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) and up to $1,106,809,000 as a 
payment from general revenues to the Hazardous Substance Superfund for 
purposes as authorized by section 517(b) of SARA:  Provided, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be allocated to other Federal 
agencies in accordance with section 111(a) of CERCLA:  Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, $8,459,000 
shall be paid to the ``Office of Inspector General'' appropriation to 
remain available until September 30, 2017, and $16,217,000 shall be 
paid to the ``Science and Technology'' appropriation to remain 
available until September 30, 2017.

          Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program

    For necessary expenses to carry out leaking underground storage 
tank cleanup activities authorized by subtitle I of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act, $91,485,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$66,116,000 shall be for carrying out leaking underground storage tank 
cleanup activities authorized by section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste 
Disposal Act; $25,369,000 shall be for carrying out the other 
provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 9508(c) 
of the Internal Revenue Code:  Provided, That the Administrator is 
authorized to use appropriations made available under this heading to 
implement section 9013 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act to provide 
financial assistance to federally recognized Indian tribes for the 
development and implementation of programs to manage underground 
storage tanks.

                       Inland Oil Spill Programs

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Environmental Protection 
Agency's responsibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$18,078,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability trust fund, to 
remain available until expended.

                   State and Tribal Assistance Grants

    For environmental programs and infrastructure assistance, including 
capitalization grants for State revolving funds and performance 
partnership grants, $3,027,937,000, to remain available until expended, 
of which--
            (1) $1,047,000,000 shall be for making capitalization 
        grants for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under title VI 
        of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; and of which 
        $775,896,000 shall be for making capitalization grants for the 
        Drinking Water State Revolving Funds under section 1452 of the 
        Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided, That, for fiscal year 2016, 
        to the extent there are sufficient eligible project 
        applications and projects are consistent with State Intended 
        Use Plans, not less than 10 percent of the funds made available 
        under this title to each State for Clean Water State Revolving 
        Fund capitalization grants shall be used by the State for 
        projects to address green infrastructure, water or energy 
        efficiency improvements, or other environmentally innovative 
        activities:  Provided further, That, for fiscal year 2016, 
        funds made available under this title to each State for 
        Drinking Water State Revolving Fund capitalization grants may, 
        at the discretion of each State, be used for projects to 
        address green infrastructure, water or energy efficiency 
        improvements, or other environmentally innovative activities:  
        Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 603(d)(7) of 
        the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the limitation on the 
        amounts in a State water pollution control revolving fund that 
        may be used by a State to administer the fund shall not apply 
        to amounts included as principal in loans made by such fund in 
        fiscal year 2016 and prior years where such amounts represent 
        costs of administering the fund to the extent that such amounts 
        are or were deemed reasonable by the Administrator, accounted 
        for separately from other assets in the fund, and used for 
        eligible purposes of the fund, including administration:  
        Provided further, That, for fiscal year 2016, notwithstanding 
        the provisions of sections 201(h) and (l) of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act, grants under Title II of the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act for American Samoa, Guam, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the United States Virgin 
        Islands, and the District of Columbia may also be made for the 
        purpose of providing assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, 
        design activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for 
        any proposed project for the construction of treatment works; 
        and (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of 
        privately owned treatment works serving one or more principal 
        residences or small commercial establishments:  Provided 
        further, That, for fiscal year 2016, notwithstanding the 
        provisions of sections 201(h) and (l) and section 518 of the 
        Federal Water Pollution Control Act, funds reserved by the 
        Administrator for grants under section 518(c) of the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act may also be used for grants to 
        provide assistance: (1) solely for facility plans, design 
        activities, or plans, specifications, and estimates for any 
        proposed project for the construction of treatment works; and 
        (2) for the construction, repair, or replacement of privately 
        owned treatment works serving one or more principal residences 
        or small commercial establishments:  Provided further, That, 
        for fiscal year 2016, notwithstanding the limitation on amounts 
        in section 518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
        and section 1452(i) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to a 
        total of 2 percent of the funds appropriated under the Federal 
        Water Pollution Control Act or $30,000,000, whichever is 
        greater, and up to a total of 2 percent of the funds 
        appropriated under the Safe Drinking Water Act, or $20,000,000, 
        whichever is greater for State Revolving Funds under such Acts 
        may be reserved by the Administrator for grants under section 
        518(c) and section 1452(i) of such Acts:  Provided further, 
        That, for fiscal year 2016, notwithstanding the amounts 
        specified in section 205(c) of the Federal Water Pollution 
        Control Act, up to 1.5 percent of the aggregate funds 
        appropriated for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund program 
        under the Act less any sums reserved under section 518(c) of 
        the Act, may be reserved by the Administrator for grants made 
        under title II of the Clean Water Act for American Samoa, Guam, 
        the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, and United States 
        Virgin Islands:  Provided further, That, for fiscal year 2016, 
        notwithstanding the limitations on amounts specified in section 
        1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, up to 1.5 percent of 
        the funds appropriated for the Drinking Water State Revolving 
        Fund programs under the Safe Drinking Water Act may be reserved 
        by the Administrator for grants made under section 1452(j) of 
        the Safe Drinking Water Act:  Provided further, That no less 
        than 10 percent but not more than 20 percent of the funds made 
        available under this title to each State for Clean Water State 
        Revolving Fund capitalization grants and not less than 20 
        percent but not more than 30 percent of the funds made 
        available under this title to each State for Drinking Water 
        State Revolving Fund capitalization grants shall be used by the 
        State to provide additional subsidy to eligible recipients in 
        the form of forgiveness of principal, negative interest loans, 
        or grants (or any combination of these), and shall be so used 
        by the State only where such funds are provided as initial 
        financing for an eligible recipient or to buy, refinance, or 
        restructure the debt obligations of eligible recipients only 
        where such debt was incurred on or after the date of enactment 
        of this Act;
            (2) $10,000,000 shall be for architectural, engineering, 
        planning, design, construction and related activities in 
        connection with the construction of high priority water and 
        wastewater facilities in the area of the United States-Mexico 
        Border, after consultation with the appropriate border 
        commission;  Provided, That no funds provided by this 
        appropriations Act to address the water, wastewater and other 
        critical infrastructure needs of the colonias in the United 
        States along the United States-Mexico border shall be made 
        available to a county or municipal government unless that 
        government has established an enforceable local ordinance, or 
        other zoning rule, which prevents in that jurisdiction the 
        development or construction of any additional colonia areas, or 
        the development within an existing colonia the construction of 
        any new home, business, or other structure which lacks water, 
        wastewater, or other necessary infrastructure;
            (3) $20,000,000 shall be for grants to the State of Alaska 
        to address drinking water and wastewater infrastructure needs 
        of rural and Alaska Native Villages:  Provided, That, of these 
        funds: (A) the State of Alaska shall provide a match of 25 
        percent; (B) no more than 5 percent of the funds may be used 
        for administrative and overhead expenses; and (C) the State of 
        Alaska shall make awards consistent with the Statewide priority 
        list established in conjunction with the Agency and the U.S. 
        Department of Agriculture for all water, sewer, waste disposal, 
        and similar projects carried out by the State of Alaska that 
        are funded under section 221 of the Federal Water Pollution 
        Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1301) or the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
        Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) which shall allocate 
        not less than 25 percent of the funds provided for projects in 
        regional hub communities;
            (4) $80,000,000 shall be to carry out section 104(k) of the 
        Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), including grants, interagency 
        agreements, and associated program support costs:  Provided, 
        That not more than 25 percent of the amount appropriated to 
        carry out section 104(k) of CERCLA shall be used for site 
        characterization, assessment, and remediation of facilities 
        described in section 101(39)(D)(ii)(II) of CERCLA;
            (5) $20,000,000 shall be for grants under title VII, 
        subtitle G of the Energy Policy Act of 2005;
            (6) $15,000,000 shall be for targeted airshed grants in 
        accordance with the terms and conditions of the report 
        accompanying this Act; and
            (7) $1,060,041,000 shall be for grants, including 
        associated program support costs, to States, federally 
        recognized tribes, interstate agencies, tribal consortia, and 
        air pollution control agencies for multi-media or single media 
        pollution prevention, control and abatement and related 
        activities, including activities pursuant to the provisions set 
        forth under this heading in Public Law 104-134, and for making 
        grants under section 103 of the Clean Air Act for particulate 
        matter monitoring and data collection activities subject to 
        terms and conditions specified by the Administrator, of which: 
        $47,745,000 shall be for carrying out section 128 of CERCLA; 
        $9,646,000 shall be for Environmental Information Exchange 
        Network grants, including associated program support costs; 
        $1,498,000 shall be for grants to States under section 
        2007(f)(2) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, which shall be in 
        addition to funds appropriated under the heading ``Leaking 
        Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program'' to carry out the 
        provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act specified in section 
        9508(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other than section 9003(h) 
        of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; $17,848,000 of the funds 
        available for grants under section 106 of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act shall be for State participation in 
        national- and State-level statistical surveys of water 
        resources and enhancements to State monitoring programs:  
        Provided, That, for fiscal year 2016 and hereafter, 
        notwithstanding other applicable provisions of law, the funds 
        appropriated for the Indian Environmental General Assistance 
        Program shall be available to federally recognized tribes for 
        solid waste and recovered materials collection, transportation, 
        backhaul, and disposal services.

       Administrative Provisions--Environmental Protection Agency

              (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    For fiscal year 2016, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 6303(1) and 
6305(1), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in 
carrying out the Agency's function to implement directly Federal 
environmental programs required or authorized by law in the absence of 
an acceptable tribal program, may award cooperative agreements to 
federally recognized Indian tribes or Intertribal consortia, if 
authorized by their member tribes, to assist the Administrator in 
implementing Federal environmental programs for Indian tribes required 
or authorized by law, except that no such cooperative agreements may be 
awarded from funds designated for State financial assistance 
agreements.
    The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is 
authorized to collect and obligate pesticide registration service fees 
in accordance with section 33 of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, 
and Rodenticide Act, as amended by Public Law 112-177, the Pesticide 
Registration Improvement Extension Act of 2012.
    Notwithstanding section 33(d)(2) of the Federal Insecticide, 
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136w-8(d)(2)), the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may assess fees 
under section 33 of FIFRA (7 U.S.C. 136w-8) for fiscal year 2016.
    The Administrator is authorized to transfer up to $300,000,000 of 
the funds appropriated for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative under 
the heading ``Environmental Programs and Management'' to the head of 
any Federal department or agency, with the concurrence of such head, to 
carry out activities that would support the Great Lakes Restoration 
Initiative and Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement programs, projects, 
or activities; to enter into an interagency agreement with the head of 
such Federal department or agency to carry out these activities; and to 
make grants to governmental entities, nonprofit organizations, 
institutions, and individuals for planning, research, monitoring, 
outreach, and implementation in furtherance of the Great Lakes 
Restoration Initiative and the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement.
    The Science and Technology, Environmental Programs and Management, 
Office of Inspector General, Hazardous Substance Superfund, and Leaking 
Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program Accounts, are available for 
the construction, alteration, repair, rehabilitation, and renovation of 
facilities provided that the cost does not exceed $150,000 per project.
    The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall base 
agency policies and actions regarding air emission from forest biomass 
including, but not limited to, air emissions from facilities that 
combust forest biomass for energy, on the principle that forest biomass 
emission do not increase overall carbon dioxide accumulations in the 
atmosphere when USDA Forest Inventory and Analysis data show that 
forest carbon stocks in the U.S. are stable or increasing on a national 
scale, or when forest biomass is derived from mill residuals, harvest 
residuals or forest management activities. Such policies and actions 
shall not pre-empt existing authorities of States to determine how to 
utilize biomass as a renewable energy source and shall not inhibit 
States' authority to apply the same policies to forest biomass as other 
renewable fuels in implementing Federal law.
    For fiscal year 2016, and notwithstanding section 518(f) of the 
Water Pollution Control Act, the Administrator is authorized to use the 
amounts appropriated for any fiscal year under Section 319 of the Act 
to make grants to federally recognized Indian tribes pursuant to 
sections 319(h) and 518(e) of that Act.
    The Administrator is authorized to use the amounts appropriated 
under the heading ``Environmental Programs and Management'' for fiscal 
year 2016 to provide grants to implement the Southeastern New England 
Watershed Restoration Program.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                             Forest Service

                     forest and rangeland research

    For necessary expenses of forest and rangeland research as 
authorized by law, $291,904,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That, of the funds provided, $80,000,000 is for the forest 
inventory and analysis program.

                       state and private forestry

    For necessary expenses of cooperating with and providing technical 
and financial assistance to States, territories, possessions, and 
others, and for forest health management, including treatments of 
pests, pathogens, and invasive or noxious plants and for restoring and 
rehabilitating forests damaged by pests or invasive plants, cooperative 
forestry, and education and land conservation activities and conducting 
an international program as authorized, $226,655,000, to remain 
available until expended, as authorized by law; of which $59,800,000 is 
to be derived from the Land and Water Conservation Fund.

                         national forest system

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, for management, protection, improvement, and utilization 
of the National Forest System, $1,516,764,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That, of the funds provided, $40,000,000 
shall be deposited in the Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration 
Fund for ecological restoration treatments as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 
7303(f):  Provided further, That, of the funds provided, $359,805,000 
shall be for forest products:  Provided further, That, of the funds 
provided, up to $81,941,000 is for the Integrated Resource Restoration 
pilot program for Region 1, Region 3 and Region 4:  Provided further, 
That, of the funds provided for forest products, up to $65,560,000 may 
be transferred to support the Integrated Resource Restoration pilot 
program in the preceding proviso:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
of Agriculture may transfer to the Secretary of the Interior any 
unobligated funds appropriated in a previous fiscal year for operation 
of the Valles Caldera National Preserve.

                  capital improvement and maintenance

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service, not otherwise 
provided for, $358,164,000, to remain available until expended, for 
construction, capital improvement, maintenance and acquisition of 
buildings and other facilities and infrastructure; and for 
construction, reconstruction, decommissioning of roads that are no 
longer needed, including unauthorized roads that are not part of the 
transportation system, and maintenance of forest roads and trails by 
the Forest Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532-538 and 23 U.S.C. 101 
and 205:  Provided, That $25,000,000 shall be designated for urgently 
needed road decommissioning, road and trail repair and maintenance and 
associated activities, and removal of fish passage barriers, especially 
in areas where Forest Service roads may be contributing to water 
quality problems in streams and water bodies which support threatened, 
endangered, or sensitive species or community water sources:  Provided 
further, That funds becoming available in fiscal year 2016 under the 
Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501) shall be transferred to the 
General Fund of the Treasury and shall not be available for transfer or 
obligation for any other purpose unless the funds are appropriated:  
Provided further, That, of the funds provided for decommissioning of 
roads, up to $14,743,000 may be transferred to the ``National Forest 
System'' to support the Integrated Resource Restoration pilot program.

                            land acquisition

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 et seq.), 
including administrative expenses, and for acquisition of land or 
waters, or interest therein, in accordance with statutory authority 
applicable to the Forest Service, $38,440,000, to be derived from the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund and to remain available until 
expended.

         acquisition of lands for national forests special acts

    For acquisition of lands within the exterior boundaries of the 
Cache, Uinta, and Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe National 
Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles, San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland 
National Forests, California, as authorized by law, $950,000, to be 
derived from forest receipts.

            acquisition of lands to complete land exchanges

    For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be derived from funds 
deposited by State, county, or municipal governments, public school 
districts, or other public school authorities, and for authorized 
expenditures from funds deposited by non-Federal parties pursuant to 
Land Sale and Exchange Acts, pursuant to the Act of December 4, 1967, 
(16 U.S.C. 484a), to remain available until expended (16 U.S.C. 460l-
516-617a, 555a; Public Law 96-586; Public Law 76-589, 76-591; and 
Public Law 78-310).

                         range betterment fund

    For necessary expenses of range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvement, 50 percent of all moneys received during the prior fiscal 
year, as fees for grazing domestic livestock on lands in National 
Forests in the 16 Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1) of 
Public Law 94-579, to remain available until expended, of which not to 
exceed 6 percent shall be available for administrative expenses 
associated with on-the-ground range rehabilitation, protection, and 
improvements.

    gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research

    For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1643(b), $45,000, to remain 
available until expended, to be derived from the fund established 
pursuant to the above Act.

        management of national forest lands for subsistence uses

    For necessary expenses of the Forest Service to manage Federal 
lands in Alaska for subsistence uses under title VIII of the Alaska 
National Interest Lands Conservation Act (Public Law 96-487), 
$2,500,000, to remain available until expended.

                        wildland fire management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for forest fire presuppression activities on 
National Forest System lands, for emergency fire suppression on or 
adjacent to such lands or other lands under fire protection agreement, 
hazardous fuels management on or adjacent to such lands, emergency 
rehabilitation of burned-over National Forest System lands and water, 
and for State and volunteer fire assistance, $2,701,341,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That such funds including 
unobligated balances under this heading, are available for repayment of 
advances from other appropriations accounts previously transferred for 
such purposes:  Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
reimburse State and other cooperating entities for services provided in 
response to wildfire and other emergencies or disasters to the extent 
such reimbursements by the Forest Service for non-fire emergencies are 
fully repaid by the responsible emergency management agency:  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, $6,914,000 
of funds appropriated under this appropriation shall be available for 
the Forest Service in support of fire science research authorized by 
the Joint Fire Science Program, including all Forest Service 
authorities for the use of funds, such as contracts, grants, research 
joint venture agreements, and cooperative agreements:  Provided 
further, That all authorities for the use of funds, including the use 
of contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements, available to execute 
the Forest and Rangeland Research appropriation, are also available in 
the utilization of these funds for Fire Science Research:  Provided 
further, That funds provided shall be available for emergency 
rehabilitation and restoration, hazardous fuels management activities, 
support to Federal emergency response, and wildfire suppression 
activities of the Forest Service:  Provided further, That, of the funds 
provided, $375,000,000 is for hazardous fuels management activities, 
$19,795,000 is for research activities and to make competitive research 
grants pursuant to the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources 
Research Act, (16 U.S.C. 1641 et seq.), $78,012,000 is for State fire 
assistance, and $13,000,000 is for volunteer fire assistance under 
section 10 of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 
U.S.C. 2106):  Provided further, That amounts in this paragraph may be 
transferred to the ``National Forest System'', and ``Forest and 
Rangeland Research'' accounts to fund forest and rangeland research, 
the Joint Fire Science Program, vegetation and watershed management, 
heritage site rehabilitation, and wildlife and fish habitat management 
and restoration:  Provided further, That the costs of implementing any 
cooperative agreement between the Federal Government and any non-
Federal entity may be shared, as mutually agreed on by the affected 
parties:  Provided further, That up to $15,000,000 of the funds 
provided herein may be used by the Secretary of Agriculture to enter 
into procurement contracts or cooperative agreements or to issue grants 
for hazardous fuels management activities and for training or 
monitoring associated with such hazardous fuels management activities 
on Federal land or on non-Federal land if the Secretary determines such 
activities benefit resources on Federal land:  Provided further, That 
funds made available to implement the Community Forest Restoration Act, 
Public Law 106-393, title VI, shall be available for use on non-Federal 
lands in accordance with authorities made available to the Forest 
Service under the ``State and Private Forestry'' appropriation:  
Provided further, That the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary 
of Agriculture may authorize the transfer of funds appropriated for 
wildland fire management, in an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$50,000,000, between the Departments when such transfers would 
facilitate and expedite wildland fire management programs and projects: 
 Provided further, That, of the funds provided for hazardous fuels 
management, not to exceed $15,000,000 may be used to make grants, using 
any authorities available to the Forest Service under the ``State and 
Private Forestry'' appropriation, for the purpose of creating 
incentives for increased use of biomass from National Forest System 
lands:  Provided further, That funds designated for wildfire 
suppression shall be assessed for cost pools on the same basis as such 
assessments are calculated against other agency programs:  Provided 
further, That, of the funds for hazardous fuels management, up to 
$24,000,000 may be transferred to the ``National Forest System'' to 
support the Integrated Resource Restoration pilot program.
    For an additional amount, $854,578,000 for wildfire suppression 
operations to meet the emergency and unpredictable aspects of wildland 
firefighting including support, response, and emergency stabilization 
activities, other emergency management activities, and funds necessary 
to repay any transfers needed for these costs, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such funds are also available for 
transfer to other appropriations accounts to repay amounts previously 
transferred for wildfire suppression:  Provided further, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as being for an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               administrative provisions, forest service

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Appropriations to the Forest Service for the current fiscal year 
shall be available for: (1) purchase of passenger motor vehicles; 
acquisition of passenger motor vehicles from excess sources, and hire 
of such vehicles; purchase, lease, operation, maintenance, and 
acquisition of aircraft to maintain the operable fleet for use in 
Forest Service wildland fire programs and other Forest Service 
programs; notwithstanding other provisions of law, existing aircraft 
being replaced may be sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value 
used to offset the purchase price for the replacement aircraft; (2) 
services pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase, erection, and alteration 
of buildings and other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4) 
acquisition of land, waters, and interests therein pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
428a; (5) for expenses pursuant to the Volunteers in the National 
Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d, and 558a note); (6) the cost 
of uniforms as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and (7) for debt 
collection contracts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c).
    Any appropriations or funds available to the Forest Service may be 
transferred to the Wildland Fire Management appropriation for forest 
firefighting, emergency rehabilitation of burned-over or damaged lands 
or waters under its jurisdiction, and fire preparedness due to severe 
burning conditions upon the Secretary's notification of the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations that all fire suppression funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Wildland Fire Management'' will be 
obligated within 30 days:  Provided, That all funds used pursuant to 
this paragraph must be replenished by a supplemental appropriation 
which must be requested as promptly as possible.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
assistance to or through the Agency for International Development in 
connection with forest and rangeland research, technical information, 
and assistance in foreign countries, and shall be available to support 
forestry and related natural resource activities outside the United 
States and its territories and possessions, including technical 
assistance, education and training, and cooperation with U.S., private, 
and international organizations. The Forest Service, acting for the 
International Program, may sign direct funding agreements with foreign 
governments and institutions as well as other domestic agencies 
(including the U.S. Agency for International Development, the 
Department of State, and the Millennium Challenge Corporation), U.S. 
private sector firms, institutions and organizations to provide 
technical assistance and training programs overseas on forestry and 
rangeland management.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
expenditure or transfer to the Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Land Management, for removal, preparation, and adoption of excess wild 
horses and burros from National Forest System lands, and for the 
performance of cadastral surveys to designate the boundaries of such 
lands.
    None of the funds made available to the Forest Service in this Act 
or any other Act with respect to any fiscal year shall be subject to 
transfer under the provisions of section 702(b) of the Department of 
Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257), section 442 of Public 
Law 106-224 (7 U.S.C. 7772), or section 10417(b) of Public Law 107-107 
(7 U.S.C. 8316(b)).
    None of the funds available to the Forest Service may be 
reprogrammed without the advance approval of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the reprogramming 
procedures contained in the explanatory statement accompanying this 
Act.
    Not more than $82,000,000 of funds available to the Forest Service 
shall be transferred to the Working Capital Fund of the Department of 
Agriculture and not more than $14,500,000 of funds available to the 
Forest Service shall be transferred to the Department of Agriculture 
for Department Reimbursable Programs, commonly referred to as Greenbook 
charges. Nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit or limit the use of 
reimbursable agreements requested by the Forest Service in order to 
obtain services from the Department of Agriculture's National 
Information Technology Center. Nothing in this paragraph shall limit 
the Forest Service portion of implementation costs to be paid to the 
Department of Agriculture for the International Technology Service.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $5,000,000 
shall be available for priority projects within the scope of the 
approved budget, which shall be carried out by the Youth Conservation 
Corps and shall be carried out under the authority of the Public Lands 
Corps Act of 1993, Public Law 103-82, as amended by Public Lands Corps 
Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2005, Public Law 109-154.
    Of the funds available to the Forest Service, $4,000 is available 
to the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and 
representation expenses.
    Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of Public Law 101-593, of 
the funds available to the Forest Service, up to $3,000,000 may be 
advanced in a lump sum to the National Forest Foundation to aid 
conservation partnership projects in support of the Forest Service 
mission, without regard to when the Foundation incurs expenses, for 
projects on or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to 
Forest Service programs:  Provided, That, of the Federal funds made 
available to the Foundation, no more than $300,000 shall be available 
for administrative expenses:  Provided further, That the Foundation 
shall obtain, by the end of the period of Federal financial assistance, 
private contributions to match on at least one-for-one basis funds made 
available by the Forest Service:  Provided further, That the Foundation 
may transfer Federal funds to a Federal or a non-Federal recipient for 
a project at the same rate that the recipient has obtained the non-
Federal matching funds.
    Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law 98-244, up to $3,000,000 
of the funds available to the Forest Service may be advanced to the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in a lump sum to aid cost-share 
conservation projects, without regard to when expenses are incurred, on 
or benefitting National Forest System lands or related to Forest 
Service programs:  Provided, That such funds shall be matched on at 
least a one-for-one basis by the Foundation or its sub-recipients:  
Provided further, That the Foundation may transfer Federal funds to a 
Federal or non-Federal recipient for a project at the same rate that 
the recipient has obtained the non-Federal matching funds.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural 
communities and natural resource-based businesses for sustainable rural 
development purposes.
    Funds appropriated to the Forest Service shall be available for 
payments to counties within the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic 
Area, pursuant to section 14(c)(1) and (2), and section 16(a)(2) of 
Public Law 99-663.
    Any funds appropriated to the Forest Service may be used to meet 
the non-Federal share requirement in section 502(c) of the Older 
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056(c)(2)).
    Funds available to the Forest Service, not to exceed $65,000,000, 
shall be assessed for the purpose of performing fire, administrative 
and other facilities maintenance and decommissioning. Such assessments 
shall occur using a square foot rate charged on the same basis the 
agency uses to assess programs for payment of rent, utilities, and 
other support services.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any appropriations or 
funds available to the Forest Service not to exceed $500,000 may be 
used to reimburse the Office of the General Counsel (OGC), Department 
of Agriculture, for travel and related expenses incurred as a result of 
OGC assistance or participation requested by the Forest Service at 
meetings, training sessions, management reviews, land purchase 
negotiations and similar nonlitigation-related matters. Future budget 
justifications for both the Forest Service and the Department of 
Agriculture should clearly display the sums previously transferred and 
the requested funding transfers.
    An eligible individual who is employed in any project funded under 
title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.) and 
administered by the Forest Service shall be considered to be a Federal 
employee for purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                         Indian Health Service

                         indian health services

    For expenses necessary to carry out the Act of August 5, 1954 (68 
Stat. 674), the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 
the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and titles II and III of the 
Public Health Service Act with respect to the Indian Health Service, 
$3,539,523,000, together with payments received during the fiscal year 
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 238(b) and 238b, for services furnished by the 
Indian Health Service:  Provided, That funds made available to tribes 
and tribal organizations through contracts, grant agreements, or any 
other agreements or compacts authorized by the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), 
shall be deemed to be obligated at the time of the grant or contract 
award and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or tribal 
organization without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That, 
$915,347,000 for Purchased/Referred Care, including $51,500,000 for the 
Indian Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund, shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That, of the funds provided, up to 
$36,000,000 shall remain available until expended for implementation of 
the loan repayment program under section 108 of the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act:  Provided further, That, of the funds provided, 
$2,000,000 shall be for operational shortfalls at health clinics 
previously authorized under the ``Administrative Provisions, Indian 
Health Service'' heading.  Provided further, That the amounts collected 
by the Federal Government as authorized by sections 104 and 108 of the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a) during 
the preceding fiscal year for breach of contracts shall be deposited to 
the Fund authorized by section 108A of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1) and 
shall remain available until expended and, notwithstanding section 
108A(c) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a-1(c)), funds shall be available to 
make new awards under the loan repayment and scholarship programs under 
sections 104 and 108 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a):  Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amounts 
made available within this account for the methamphetamine and suicide 
prevention and treatment initiative, and for the domestic violence 
prevention initiative, and to improve collections from public and 
private insurance at Indian Health Service and tribally operated 
facilities shall be allocated at the discretion of the Director of the 
Indian Health Service and shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That funds provided in this Act may be used for 
annual contracts and grants that fall within 2 fiscal years, provided 
the total obligation is recorded in the year the funds are 
appropriated:  Provided further, That the amounts collected by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services under the authority of title IV 
of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act shall remain available until 
expended for the purpose of achieving compliance with the applicable 
conditions and requirements of titles XVIII and XIX of the Social 
Security Act, except for those related to the planning, design, or 
construction of new facilities:  Provided further, That funding 
contained herein for scholarship programs under the Indian Health Care 
Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1613) shall remain available until expended: 
 Provided further, That amounts received by tribes and tribal 
organizations under title IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act 
shall be reported and accounted for and available to the receiving 
tribes and tribal organizations until expended:  Provided further, That 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs may collect from the Indian Health 
Service, tribes and tribal organizations operating health facilities 
pursuant to Public Law 93-638, such individually identifiable health 
information relating to disabled children as may be necessary for the 
purpose of carrying out its functions under the Individuals with 
Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400, et seq.):  Provided 
further, That the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund may be used, as 
needed, to carry out activities typically funded under the Indian 
Health Facilities account.

                         contract support costs

    For payments to tribes and tribal organizations for contract 
support costs associated with Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act agreements with the Indian Health Service for fiscal 
year 2016, such sums as may be necessary:  Provided, That amounts 
obligated but not expended by a tribe or tribal organization for 
contract support costs for such agreements for the current fiscal year 
shall be applied to contract support costs otherwise due for such 
agreements for subsequent fiscal years:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, no amounts made available 
under this heading shall be available for transfer to another budget 
account.

                        indian health facilities

    For construction, repair, maintenance, improvement, and equipment 
of health and related auxiliary facilities, including quarters for 
personnel; preparation of plans, specifications, and drawings; 
acquisition of sites, purchase and erection of modular buildings, and 
purchases of trailers; and for provision of domestic and community 
sanitation facilities for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the 
Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the Indian Self-Determination 
Act, and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and for expenses 
necessary to carry out such Acts and titles II and III of the Public 
Health Service Act with respect to environmental health and facilities 
support activities of the Indian Health Service, $521,818,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, funds appropriated for the planning, design, 
construction, renovation or expansion of health facilities for the 
benefit of an Indian tribe or tribes may be used to purchase land on 
which such facilities will be located:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $500,000 may be used by the Indian Health Service to purchase 
TRANSAM equipment from the Department of Defense for distribution to 
the Indian Health Service and tribal facilities:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service may be 
used for sanitation facilities construction for new homes funded with 
grants by the housing programs of the United States Department of 
Housing and Urban Development:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$2,700,000 from this account and the ``Indian Health Services'' account 
may be used by the Indian Health Service to obtain ambulances for the 
Indian Health Service and tribal facilities in conjunction with an 
existing interagency agreement between the Indian Health Service and 
the General Services Administration:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $500,000 may be placed in a Demolition Fund, to remain available 
until expended, and be used by the Indian Health Service for the 
demolition of Federal buildings.

            administrative provisions--indian health service

    Appropriations provided in this Act to the Indian Health Service 
shall be available for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 at rates 
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable 
for senior-level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of medical equipment; purchase of 
reprints; purchase, renovation and erection of modular buildings and 
renovation of existing facilities; payments for telephone service in 
private residences in the field, when authorized under regulations 
approved by the Secretary; uniforms or allowances therefor as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; and for expenses of attendance at 
meetings that relate to the functions or activities of the Indian 
Health Service:  Provided, That, in accordance with the provisions of 
the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, non-Indian patients may be 
extended health care at all tribally administered or Indian Health 
Service facilities, subject to charges, and the proceeds along with 
funds recovered under the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 
2651-2653) shall be credited to the account of the facility providing 
the service and shall be available without fiscal year limitation:  
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other law or regulation, 
funds transferred from the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
to the Indian Health Service shall be administered under Public Law 86-
121, the Indian Sanitation Facilities Act and Public Law 93-638:  
Provided further, That funds appropriated to the Indian Health Service 
in this Act, except those used for administrative and program direction 
purposes, shall not be subject to limitations directed at curtailing 
Federal travel and transportation:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available to the Indian Health Service in this Act shall be 
used for any assessments or charges by the Department of Health and 
Human Services unless identified in the budget justification and 
provided in this Act, or approved by the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations through the reprogramming process:  Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds previously or 
herein made available to a tribe or tribal organization through a 
contract, grant, or agreement authorized by title I or title V of the 
Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 
U.S.C. 450), may be deobligated and reobligated to a self-determination 
contract under title I, or a self-governance agreement under title V of 
such Act and thereafter shall remain available to the tribe or tribal 
organization without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available to the Indian Health Service in this 
Act shall be used to implement the final rule published in the Federal 
Register on September 16, 1987, by the Department of Health and Human 
Services, relating to the eligibility for the health care services of 
the Indian Health Service until the Indian Health Service has submitted 
a budget request reflecting the increased costs associated with the 
proposed final rule, and such request has been included in an 
appropriations Act and enacted into law:  Provided further, That, with 
respect to functions transferred by the Indian Health Service to tribes 
or tribal organizations, the Indian Health Service is authorized to 
provide goods and services to those entities on a reimbursable basis, 
including payments in advance with subsequent adjustment, and the 
reimbursements received therefrom, along with the funds received from 
those entities pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act, may be 
credited to the same or subsequent appropriation account from which the 
funds were originally derived, with such amounts to remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That reimbursements for training, 
technical assistance, or services provided by the Indian Health Service 
will contain total costs, including direct, administrative, and 
overhead associated with the provision of goods, services, or technical 
assistance:  Provided further, That the appropriation structure for the 
Indian Health Service may not be altered without advance notification 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

                     National Institutes of Health

          national institute of environmental health sciences

    For necessary expenses for the National Institute of Environmental 
Health Sciences in carrying out activities set forth in section 311(a) 
of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the 
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, $77,349,000.

            Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry

            toxic substances and environmental public health

    For necessary expenses for the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry (ATSDR) in carrying out activities set forth in 
sections 104(i) and 111(c)(4) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and section 
3019 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, $74,691,000, of which up to 
$1,000 per eligible employee of the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry shall remain available until expended for Individual 
Learning Accounts:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, in lieu of performing a health assessment under section 
104(i)(6) of CERCLA, the Administrator of ATSDR may conduct other 
appropriate health studies, evaluations, or activities, including, 
without limitation, biomedical testing, clinical evaluations, medical 
monitoring, and referral to accredited healthcare providers:  Provided 
further, That, in performing any such health assessment or health 
study, evaluation, or activity, the Administrator of ATSDR shall not be 
bound by the deadlines in section 104(i)(6)(A) of CERCLA:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be available for ATSDR to issue in excess of 40 toxicological profiles 
pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during fiscal year 2016, and 
existing profiles may be updated as necessary.

                         OTHER RELATED AGENCIES

                   Executive Office of the President

  council on environmental quality and office of environmental quality

    For necessary expenses to continue functions assigned to the 
Council on Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the 
Environmental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and Reorganization Plan 
No. 1 of 1977, and not to exceed $750 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $3,000,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 202 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1970, the 
Council shall consist of one member, appointed by the President, by and 
with the advice and consent of the Senate, serving as chairman and 
exercising all powers, functions, and duties of the Council.

             Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses in carrying out activities pursuant to 
section 112(r)(6) of the Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger 
vehicles, uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902, and for services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates 
for individuals not to exceed the per diem equivalent to the maximum 
rate payable for senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376, 
$10,700,000:  Provided, That the Chemical Safety and Hazard 
Investigation Board (Board) shall have not more than three career 
Senior Executive Service positions:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the individual appointed to 
the position of Inspector General of the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) shall, by virtue of such appointment, also hold the 
position of Inspector General of the Board:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Inspector General of 
the Board shall utilize personnel of the Office of Inspector General of 
EPA in performing the duties of the Inspector General of the Board, and 
shall not appoint any individuals to positions within the Board.

              Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian 
Relocation as authorized by Public Law 93-531, $7,341,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That funds provided in this or any 
other appropriations Act are to be used to relocate eligible 
individuals and groups including evictees from District 6, Hopi-
partitioned lands residents, those in significantly substandard 
housing, and all others certified as eligible and not included in the 
preceding categories:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
contained in this or any other Act may be used by the Office of Navajo 
and Hopi Indian Relocation to evict any single Navajo or Navajo family 
who, as of November 30, 1985, was physically domiciled on the lands 
partitioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or replacement home is 
provided for such household:  Provided further, That no relocatee will 
be provided with more than one new or replacement home:  Provided 
further, That the Office shall relocate any certified eligible 
relocatees who have selected and received an approved homesite on the 
Navajo reservation or selected a replacement residence off the Navajo 
reservation or on the land acquired pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-10:  
Provided further, That $200,000 shall be transferred to the Office of 
Inspector General of the Department of the Interior, to remain 
available until expended, for audits and investigations of the Office 
of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, consistent with the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).

    Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
                              Development

                        payment to the institute

    For payment to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native 
Culture and Arts Development, as authorized by title XV of Public Law 
99-498 (20 U.S.C. 56 part A), $11,619,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

                        Smithsonian Institution

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian Institution, as 
authorized by law, including research in the fields of art, science, 
and history; development, preservation, and documentation of the 
National Collections; presentation of public exhibits and performances; 
collection, preparation, dissemination, and exchange of information and 
publications; conduct of education, training, and museum assistance 
programs; maintenance, alteration, operation, lease agreements of no 
more than 30 years, and protection of buildings, facilities, and 
approaches; not to exceed $100,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for 
employees, $689,566,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, 
except as otherwise provided herein; of which not to exceed $48,387,000 
for the instrumentation program, collections acquisition, exhibition 
reinstallation, the National Museum of African American History and 
Culture, and the repatriation of skeletal remains program shall remain 
available until expended; and including such funds as may be necessary 
to support American overseas research centers:  Provided, That funds 
appropriated herein are available for advance payments to independent 
contractors performing research services or participating in official 
Smithsonian presentations.

                           facilities capital

    For necessary expenses of repair, revitalization, and alteration of 
facilities owned or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by 
contract or otherwise, as authorized by section 2 of the Act of August 
22, 1949 (63 Stat. 623), and for construction, including necessary 
personnel, $129,975,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $10,000 shall be for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109.

                        National Gallery of Art

                         salaries and expenses

    For the upkeep and operations of the National Gallery of Art, the 
protection and care of the works of art therein, and administrative 
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 13, 1939 
(Public Resolution 9, Seventy-sixth Congress), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance when authorized by the 
treasurer of the Gallery for membership in library, museum, and art 
associations or societies whose publications or services are available 
to members only, or to members at a price lower than to the general 
public; purchase, repair, and cleaning of uniforms for guards, and 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, for other employees as authorized by 
law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902); purchase or rental of devices and services 
for protecting buildings and contents thereof, and maintenance, 
alteration, improvement, and repair of buildings, approaches, and 
grounds; and purchase of services for restoration and repair of works 
of art for the National Gallery of Art by contracts made, without 
advertising, with individuals, firms, or organizations at such rates or 
prices and under such terms and conditions as the Gallery may deem 
proper, $122,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, of 
which not to exceed $3,578,000 for the special exhibition program shall 
remain available until expended.

            repair, restoration and renovation of buildings

    For necessary expenses of repair, restoration and renovation of 
buildings, grounds and facilities owned or occupied by the National 
Gallery of Art, by contract or otherwise, for operating lease 
agreements of no more than 10 years, with no extensions or renewals 
beyond the 10 years, that address space needs created by the ongoing 
renovations in the Master Facilities Plan, as authorized, $16,000,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That contracts awarded 
for environmental systems, protection systems, and exterior repair or 
renovation of buildings of the National Gallery of Art may be 
negotiated with selected contractors and awarded on the basis of 
contractor qualifications as well as price.

             John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

                       operations and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for the operation, maintenance and security 
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, $21,660,000.

                     capital repair and restoration

    For necessary expenses for capital repair and restoration of the 
existing features of the building and site of the John F. Kennedy 
Center for the Performing Arts, $11,140,000, to remain available until 
expended.

            Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary in carrying out the provisions of the 
Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of 
passenger vehicles and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$10,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

           National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

                    National Endowment for the Arts

                       grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $146,021,000 shall be available to 
the National Endowment for the Arts for the support of projects and 
productions in the arts, including arts education and public outreach 
activities, through assistance to organizations and individuals 
pursuant to section 5 of the Act, for program support, and for 
administering the functions of the Act, to remain available until 
expended.

                 National Endowment for the Humanities

                       grants and administration

    For necessary expenses to carry out the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, $146,021,000 to remain available 
until expended, of which $135,121,000 shall be available for support of 
activities in the humanities, pursuant to section 7(c) of the Act and 
for administering the functions of the Act; and $10,900,000 shall be 
available to carry out the matching grants program pursuant to section 
10(a)(2) of the Act, including $8,500,000 for the purposes of section 
7(h):  Provided, That appropriations for carrying out section 10(a)(2) 
shall be available for obligation only in such amounts as may be equal 
to the total amounts of gifts, bequests, devises of money, and other 
property accepted by the chairman or by grantees of the National 
Endowment for the Humanities under the provisions of sections 
11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the current and preceding fiscal 
years for which equal amounts have not previously been appropriated.

                       Administrative Provisions

    None of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used to process any grant or contract 
documents which do not include the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated to the National Foundation on the 
Arts and the Humanities may be used for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That funds from 
nonappropriated sources may be used as necessary for official reception 
and representation expenses:  Provided further, That the Chairperson of 
the National Endowment for the Arts may approve grants of up to 
$10,000, if in the aggregate the amount of such grants does not exceed 
5 percent of the sums appropriated for grantmaking purposes per year:  
Provided further, That such small grant actions are taken pursuant to 
the terms of an expressed and direct delegation of authority from the 
National Council on the Arts to the Chairperson.

                        Commission of Fine Arts

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Commission of Fine Arts under Chapter 91 of 
title 40, United States Code, $2,653,000:  Provided, That the 
Commission is authorized to charge fees to cover the full costs of its 
publications, and such fees shall be credited to this account as an 
offsetting collection, to remain available until expended without 
further appropriation:  Provided further, That the Commission is 
authorized to accept gifts, including objects, papers, artwork, 
drawings and artifacts, that pertain to the history and design of the 
Nation's Capital or the history and activities of the Commission of 
Fine Arts, for the purpose of artistic display, study or education.

               national capital arts and cultural affairs

    For necessary expenses as authorized by Public Law 99-190 (20 
U.S.C. 956a), $2,000,000.

               Advisory Council on Historic Preservation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation (Public Law 89-665), $6,080,000.

                  National Capital Planning Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Capital Planning Commission 
under chapter 87 of title 40, United States Code, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $7,948,000:  Provided, That one-quarter of 
1 percent of the funds provided under this heading may be used for 
official reception and representational expenses associated with 
hosting international visitors engaged in the planning and physical 
development of world capitals.

                United States Holocaust Memorial Museum

                       holocaust memorial museum

    For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial Museum, as authorized by 
Public Law 106-292 (36 U.S.C. 2301-2310), $52,385,000, of which 
$865,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018, for the 
Museum's equipment replacement program; and of which $2,200,000 for the 
Museum's repair and rehabilitation program and $1,264,000 for the 
Museum's outreach initiatives program shall remain available until 
expended.

                Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including the costs of construction design, 
of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission, $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                                TITLE IV

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfers of funds)

                      restriction on use of funds

    Sec. 401.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available:
            (1) for any activity or the publication or distribution of 
        literature that in any way tends to promote public support or 
        opposition to any legislative proposal on which Congressional 
        action is not complete or other than to communicate to Members 
        of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. 1913; or,
            (2) for publicity or propaganda purposes for the 
        preparation, distribution or use of any communication designed 
        to support or defeat any proposed or pending regulation, 
        administrative action, or order issued by an executive branch 
        agency, except in presentation to the executive branch itself 
        or to Congress.

                      obligation of appropriations

    Sec. 402.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

                 disclosure of administrative expenses

    Sec. 403.  The amount and basis of estimated overhead charges, 
deductions, reserves or holdbacks, including working capital fund and 
cost pool charges, from programs, projects, activities and 
subactivities to support government-wide, departmental, agency, or 
bureau administrative functions or headquarters, regional, or central 
operations shall be presented in annual budget justifications and 
subject to approval by the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate. Changes to such estimates shall be 
presented to the Committees on Appropriations for approval.

                          mining applications

    Sec. 404. (a) Limitation of Funds.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act shall be obligated or 
expended to accept or process applications for a patent for any mining 
or mill site claim located under the general mining laws.
    (b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of 
the Interior determines that, for the claim concerned (1) a patent 
application was filed with the Secretary on or before September 30, 
1994; and (2) all requirements established under sections 2325 and 2326 
of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29 and 30) for vein or lode claims, 
sections 2329, 2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 
35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and section 2337 of the Revised 
Statutes (30 U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the case may be, were 
fully complied with by the applicant by that date.
    (c) Report.--On September 30, 2017, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall file with the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
the Committee on Natural Resources of the House and the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on actions taken by 
the Department under the plan submitted pursuant to section 314(c) of 
the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
1997 (Public Law 104-208).
    (d) Mineral Examinations.--In order to process patent applications 
in a timely and responsible manner, upon the request of a patent 
applicant, the Secretary of the Interior shall allow the applicant to 
fund a qualified third-party contractor to be selected by the Director 
of the Bureau of Land Management to conduct a mineral examination of 
the mining claims or mill sites contained in a patent application as 
set forth in subsection (b). The Bureau of Land Management shall have 
the sole responsibility to choose and pay the third-party contractor in 
accordance with the standard procedures employed by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the retention of third-party contractors.

             contract support costs, prior year limitation

    Sec. 405.  Sections 405 and 406 of division F of the Consolidated 
and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235) 
shall continue in effect in fiscal year 2016.

          contract support costs, fiscal year 2016 limitation

    Sec. 406.  Amounts provided by this Act for fiscal year 2016 under 
the headings ``Department of Health and Human Services, Indian Health 
Service, Contract Support Costs'' and ``Department of the Interior, 
Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, Contract 
Support Costs'' are the only amounts available for contract support 
costs arising out of self-determination or self-governance contracts, 
grants, compacts, or annual funding agreements for fiscal year 2016 
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Indian Health Service:  
Provided, That such amounts provided by this Act are not available for 
payment of claims for contract support costs for prior years, or for 
repayments of payments for settlements or judgments awarding contract 
support costs for prior years.

                        forest management plans

    Sec. 407.  The Secretary of Agriculture shall not be considered to 
be in violation of subparagraph 6(f)(5)(A) of the Forest and Rangeland 
Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(5)(A)) 
solely because more than 15 years have passed without revision of the 
plan for a unit of the National Forest System. Nothing in this section 
exempts the Secretary from any other requirement of the Forest and 
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.) or 
any other law:  Provided, That if the Secretary is not acting 
expeditiously and in good faith, within the funding available, to 
revise a plan for a unit of the National Forest System, this section 
shall be void with respect to such plan and a court of proper 
jurisdiction may order completion of the plan on an accelerated basis.

                 prohibition within national monuments

    Sec. 408.  No funds provided in this Act may be expended to conduct 
preleasing, leasing and related activities under either the Mineral 
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) within the boundaries of a National 
Monument established pursuant to the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 431 
et seq.) as such boundary existed on January 20, 2001, except where 
such activities are allowed under the Presidential proclamation 
establishing such monument.

                         limitation on takings

    Sec. 409.  Unless otherwise provided herein, no funds appropriated 
in this Act for the acquisition of lands or interests in lands may be 
expended for the filing of declarations of taking or complaints in 
condemnation without the approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided, That this provision shall not apply to funds 
appropriated to implement the Everglades National Park Protection and 
Expansion Act of 1989, or to funds appropriated for Federal assistance 
to the State of Florida to acquire lands for Everglades restoration 
purposes.

                        timber sale requirements

    Sec. 410.  No timber sale in Alaska's Region 10 shall be advertised 
if the indicated rate is deficit (defined as the value of the timber is 
not sufficient to cover all logging and stumpage costs and provide a 
normal profit and risk allowance under the Forest Service's appraisal 
process) when appraised using a residual value appraisal. The western 
red cedar timber from those sales which is surplus to the needs of the 
domestic processors in Alaska, shall be made available to domestic 
processors in the contiguous 48 United States at prevailing domestic 
prices. All additional western red cedar volume not sold to Alaska or 
contiguous 48 United States domestic processors may be exported to 
foreign markets at the election of the timber sale holder. All Alaska 
yellow cedar may be sold at prevailing export prices at the election of 
the timber sale holder.

                    prohibition on no-bid contracts

    Sec. 411.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act to executive branch agencies may be used to enter 
into any Federal contract unless such contract is entered into in 
accordance with the requirements of Chapter 33 of title 41, United 
States Code, or Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, and the 
Federal Acquisition Regulation, unless--
            (1) Federal law specifically authorizes a contract to be 
        entered into without regard for these requirements, including 
        formula grants for States, or federally recognized Indian 
        tribes; or
            (2) such contract is authorized by the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education and Assistance Act (Public Law 93-
        638, 25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.) or by any other Federal laws that 
        specifically authorize a contract within an Indian tribe as 
        defined in section 4(e) of that Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)); or
            (3) such contract was awarded prior to the date of 
        enactment of this Act.

                           posting of reports

    Sec. 412. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public 
website of that agency any report required to be submitted by the 
Congress in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head 
of the agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.

            national endowment for the arts grant guidelines

    Sec. 413.  Of the funds provided to the National Endowment for the 
Arts--
            (1) The Chairperson shall only award a grant to an 
        individual if such grant is awarded to such individual for a 
        literature fellowship, National Heritage Fellowship, or 
        American Jazz Masters Fellowship.
            (2) The Chairperson shall establish procedures to ensure 
        that no funding provided through a grant, except a grant made 
        to a State or local arts agency, or regional group, may be used 
        to make a grant to any other organization or individual to 
        conduct activity independent of the direct grant recipient. 
        Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit payments made in 
        exchange for goods and services.
            (3) No grant shall be used for seasonal support to a group, 
        unless the application is specific to the contents of the 
        season, including identified programs and/or projects.

           national endowment for the arts program priorities

    Sec. 414. (a) In providing services or awarding financial 
assistance under the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities 
Act of 1965 from funds appropriated under this Act, the Chairperson of 
the National Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given 
to providing services or awarding financial assistance for projects, 
productions, workshops, or programs that serve underserved populations.
    (b) In this section:
            (1) The term ``underserved population'' means a population 
        of individuals, including urban minorities, who have 
        historically been outside the purview of arts and humanities 
        programs due to factors such as a high incidence of income 
        below the poverty line or to geographic isolation.
            (2) The term ``poverty line'' means the poverty line (as 
        defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised 
        annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community 
        Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2))) applicable to a 
        family of the size involved.
    (c) In providing services and awarding financial assistance under 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965 with 
funds appropriated by this Act, the Chairperson of the National 
Endowment for the Arts shall ensure that priority is given to providing 
services or awarding financial assistance for projects, productions, 
workshops, or programs that will encourage public knowledge, education, 
understanding, and appreciation of the arts.
    (d) With funds appropriated by this Act to carry out section 5 of 
the National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Act of 1965--
            (1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant category for 
        projects, productions, workshops, or programs that are of 
        national impact or availability or are able to tour several 
        States;
            (2) the Chairperson shall not make grants exceeding 15 
        percent, in the aggregate, of such funds to any single State, 
        excluding grants made under the authority of paragraph (1);
            (3) the Chairperson shall report to the Congress annually 
        and by State, on grants awarded by the Chairperson in each 
        grant category under section 5 of such Act; and
            (4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use of grants to 
        improve and support community-based music performance and 
        education.

                  status of balances of appropriations

    Sec. 415.  The Department of the Interior, the Environmental 
Protection Agency, the Forest Service, and the Indian Health Service 
shall provide the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate quarterly reports on the status of balances 
of appropriations including all uncommitted, committed, and unobligated 
funds in each program and activity.

                 report on use of climate change funds

    Sec. 416.  Not later than 120 days after the date on which the 
President's fiscal year 2017 budget request is submitted to the 
Congress, the President shall submit a comprehensive report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate describing in detail all Federal agency funding, domestic and 
international, for climate change programs, projects, and activities in 
fiscal years 2015 and 2016, including an accounting of funding by 
agency with each agency identifying climate change programs, projects, 
and activities and associated costs by line item as presented in the 
President's Budget Appendix, and including citations and linkages where 
practicable to each strategic plan that is driving funding within each 
climate change program, project, and activity listed in the report.

              prohibition on federal implementation plans

    Sec. 417.  None of the funds made available by this Act, or any 
other Act for any fiscal year, shall be used to develop, propose, 
finalize, implement, or enforce section 111(d)(2) of the Clean Air Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7411(d)(2)) in the case of States that have failed to submit 
a satisfactory plan to implement section 111(d)(1) of that Act (42 
U.S.C. 7411(d)(1)), in the case of any air pollutant being regulated as 
part of any proposed or final rule to address carbon dioxide emissions 
from existing sources that are fossil fuel-fired electric utility 
generating units under section 111 of that Act (42 U.S.C. 7411), 
including any final rule that succeeds--
            (1) the proposed rule entitled ``Carbon Pollution Emission 
        Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: Electric Utility 
        Generating Units'' (79 Fed. Reg. 34830 (June 18, 2014)); or
            (2) the supplemental proposed rule entitled ``Carbon 
        Pollution Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: 
        EGUs in Indian Country and U.S. Territories; Multi-
        Jurisdictional Partnerships'' (79 Fed. Reg. 65482 (November 4, 
        2014)).

                      prohibition on use of funds

    Sec. 418.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available in this Act or any other Act may be used to 
promulgate or implement any regulation requiring the issuance of 
permits under title V of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7661 et seq.) for 
carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, water vapor, or methane emissions 
resulting from biological processes associated with livestock 
production.

                 greenhouse gas reporting restrictions

    Sec. 419.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available in this or any other Act may be used to implement 
any provision in a rule, if that provision requires mandatory reporting 
of greenhouse gas emissions from manure management systems.

                             recreation fee

    Sec. 420.  Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement 
Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2016'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2017''.

                      waters of the united states

    Sec. 421.  None of the funds made available in this Act or any 
other Act for any fiscal year may be used to develop, adopt, implement, 
administer, or enforce any change to the regulations and guidance in 
effect on October 1, 2012, pertaining to the definition of waters under 
the jurisdiction of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
Sec. 1251, et seq.), including the provisions of the rules dated 
November 13, 1986 and August 25, 1993, relating to said jurisdiction, 
and the guidance documents dated January 15, 2003 and December 2, 2008, 
relating to said jurisdiction.

                      modification of authorities

    Sec. 422. (a) Section 8162(m)(3) of the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2000 (40 U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 106-79) is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2015'' and inserting ``September 
30, 2016''.
    (b) For fiscal year 2016, the authority provided by the provisos 
under the heading ``Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission--Capital 
Construction'' in division E of Public Law 112-74 shall not be in 
effect.

                     use of american iron and steel

    Sec. 423. (a)(1) None of the funds made available by a State water 
pollution control revolving fund as authorized by section 1452 of the 
Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12) shall be used for a project 
for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public 
water system or treatment works unless all of the iron and steel 
products used in the project are produced in the United States.
    (2) In this section, the term ``iron and steel'' products means the 
following products made primarily of iron or steel: lined or unlined 
pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other municipal castings, 
hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves, 
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete, and construction 
materials.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any case or category of cases 
in which the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (in 
this section referred to as the ``Administrator'') finds that--
            (1) applying subsection (a) would be inconsistent with the 
        public interest;
            (2) iron and steel products are not produced in the United 
        States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and of 
        a satisfactory quality; or
            (3) inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the 
        United States will increase the cost of the overall project by 
        more than 25 percent.
    (c) If the Administrator receives a request for a waiver under this 
section, the Administrator shall make available to the public on an 
informal basis a copy of the request and information available to the 
Administrator concerning the request, and shall allow for informal 
public input on the request for at least 15 days prior to making a 
finding based on the request. The Administrator shall make the request 
and accompanying information available by electronic means, including 
on the official public Internet Web site of the Environmental 
Protection Agency.
    (d) This section shall be applied in a manner consistent with 
United States obligations under international agreements.
    (e) The Administrator may retain up to 0.25 percent of the funds 
appropriated in this Act for the Clean and Drinking Water State 
Revolving Funds for carrying out the provisions described in subsection 
(a)(1) for management and oversight of the requirements of this 
section.
    (f) This section does not apply with respect to a project if a 
State agency approves the engineering plans and specifications for the 
project, in that agency's capacity to approve such plans and 
specifications prior to a project requesting bids, prior to the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

        national ambient air quality standard funding limitation

    Sec. 424.  None of the funds made available by this Act, or any 
other Act for any fiscal year, shall be used to develop, adopt, 
implement, administer, or enforce a national primary or secondary 
ambient air quality standard for ozone that is lower than the standard 
established under section 50.15 of title 40, Code of Federal 
Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 2015), until at least 85 
percent of the counties that, as of January 30, 2015, were in 
nonattainment areas under the standard established under section 50.15 
of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 
2015), achieve full compliance with that standard.

                          funding prohibition

    Sec. 425.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to regulate the lead content of ammunition, ammunition 
components, or fishing tackle under the Toxic Substances Control Act 
(15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) or any other law.

                        contracting authorities

    Sec. 426.  Section 412 of Division E of Public Law 112-74 is 
amended by striking ``fiscal year 2015,'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
2017,''.

                       chesapeake bay initiative

    Sec. 427.  Section 502(c) of the Chesapeake Bay Initiative Act of 
1998 (Public Law 105-312; 16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended by striking 
``2015'' and inserting ``2017''.

           prohibition of sewage dumping into the great lakes

    Sec. 428. (a) Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1342) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(s) Prohibition on Sewage Dumping Into the Great Lakes.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Bypass.--The term `bypass' means an 
                intentional diversion of waste streams to bypass any 
                portion of a treatment facility which results in a 
                discharge into the Great Lakes.
                    ``(B) Discharge.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `discharge' 
                        means a direct or indirect discharge of 
                        untreated sewage or partially treated sewage 
                        from a treatment works into the Great Lakes or 
                        a tributary of the Great Lakes.
                            ``(ii) Inclusions.--The term `discharge' 
                        includes a bypass and a combined sewer 
                        overflow.
                    ``(C) Great lakes.--The term `Great Lakes' has the 
                meaning given the term in section 118(a)(3).
                    ``(D) Partially treated sewage.--The term 
                `partially treated sewage' means any sewage, sewage and 
                storm water, or sewage and wastewater, from domestic or 
                industrial sources that--
                            ``(i) is not treated to national secondary 
                        treatment standards for wastewater; or
                            ``(ii) is treated to a level less than the 
                        level required by the applicable national 
                        pollutant discharge elimination system permit.
                    ``(E) Treatment facility.--The term `treatment 
                facility' includes all wastewater treatment units used 
                by a publicly owned treatment works to meet secondary 
                treatment standards or higher, as required to attain 
                water quality standards, under any operating 
                conditions.
                    ``(F) Treatment works.--The term `treatment works' 
                has the meaning given the term in section 212.
            ``(2) Prohibition.--A publicly owned treatment works is 
        prohibited from performing a bypass unless--
                    ``(A)(i) the bypass is unavoidable to prevent loss 
                of life, personal injury, or severe property damage;
                    ``(ii) there is not a feasible alternative to the 
                bypass, such as the use of auxiliary treatment 
                facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or 
                maintenance during normal periods of equipment 
                downtime; and
                    ``(iii) the treatment works provides notice of the 
                bypass in accordance with this subsection; or
                    ``(B) the bypass does not cause effluent 
                limitations to be exceeded, and the bypass is for 
                essential maintenance to ensure efficient operation of 
                the treatment facility.
            ``(3) Limitation.--The requirement of paragraph (2)(A)(ii) 
        is not satisfied if--
                    ``(A) adequate back-up equipment should have been 
                installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering 
                judgment to prevent the bypass; and
                    ``(B) the bypass occurred during normal periods of 
                equipment downtime or preventive maintenance.
            ``(4) Immediate notice requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Administrator shall work 
                with States having publicly owned treatment works 
                subject to the requirements of this subsection to 
                create immediate notice requirements in the event of 
                discharge that provide for the method, contents, and 
                requirements for public availability of the notice.
                    ``(B) Minimum requirements.--
                            ``(i) In general.--At a minimum, the 
                        contents of the notice shall include--
                                    ``(I) the exact dates and times of 
                                the discharge;
                                    ``(II) the volume of the discharge; 
                                and
                                    ``(III) a description of any public 
                                access areas impacted.
                            ``(ii) Consistency.--Minimum requirements 
                        shall be consistent for all States.
                    ``(C) Additional requirements.--The Administrator 
                and States described in subparagraph (A) shall 
                include--
                            ``(i) follow-up notice requirements that 
                        provide a more full description of each event, 
                        the cause, and plans to prevent reoccurrence; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) annual publication requirements that 
                        list each treatment works from which the 
                        Administrator or the State receive a follow-up 
                        notice.
                    ``(D) Timing.--The notice and publication 
                requirements described in this paragraph shall be 
                implemented not later than 2 years after the date of 
                enactment of this subsection.
            ``(5) Sewage blending.--Bypasses prohibited by this section 
        include bypasses resulting in discharges from a publicly owned 
        treatment works that consist of effluent routed around 
        treatment units and thereafter blended together with effluent 
        from treatment units prior to discharge.
            ``(6) Implementation.--As soon as practicable, the 
        Administrator shall establish procedures to ensure that permits 
        issued under this section (or under a State permit program 
        approved under this section) to a publicly owned treatment 
        works include requirements to implement this subsection.
            ``(7) Increase in maximum civil penalty for violations 
        occurring after january 1, 2035.--Notwithstanding section 309, 
        in the case of a violation of this subsection occurring on or 
        after January 1, 2035, or any violation of a permit limitation 
        or condition implementing this subsection occurring after that 
        date, the maximum civil penalty that shall be assessed for the 
        violation shall be $100,000 per day for each day the violation 
        occurs.
            ``(8) Applicability.--This subsection shall apply to a 
        bypass occurring after the last day of the 1-year period 
        beginning on the date of enactment of this subsection.''.
    (b) Great Lakes Cleanup Fund.--(1) Title V of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.) is amended--
            (A) by redesignating section 519 (33 U.S.C. 1251 note) as 
        section 520; and
            (B) by inserting after section 518 (33 U.S.C. 1377) the 
        following:

``SEC. 519. ESTABLISHMENT OF GREAT LAKES CLEANUP FUND.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Fund.--The term `Fund' means the Great Lakes Cleanup 
        Fund established by subsection (b).
            ``(2) Great lakes; great lakes states.--The terms `Great 
        Lakes' and `Great Lakes States' have the meanings given the 
        terms in section 118(a)(3).
    ``(b) Establishment of Fund.--There is established in the Treasury 
of the United States a trust fund to be known as the `Great Lakes 
Cleanup Fund' (referred to in this section as the `Fund').
    ``(c) Transfers to Fund.--Effective January 1, 2035, there are 
authorized to be appropriated to the Fund amounts equivalent to the 
penalties collected for violations of section 402(s).
    ``(d) Administration of Fund.--The Administrator shall administer 
the Fund.
    ``(e) Use of Funds.--The Administrator shall--
            ``(1) make the amounts in the Fund available to the Great 
        Lakes States for use in carrying out programs and activities 
        for improving wastewater discharges into the Great Lakes, 
        including habitat protection and wetland restoration; and
            ``(2) allocate those amounts among the Great Lakes States 
        based on the proportion that--
                    ``(A) the amount attributable to a Great Lakes 
                State for penalties collected for violations of section 
                402(s); bears to
                    ``(B) the total amount of those penalties 
                attributable to all Great Lakes States.
    ``(f) Priority.--In selecting programs and activities to be funded 
using amounts made available under this section, a Great Lakes State 
shall give priority consideration to programs and activities that 
address violations of section 402(s) resulting in the collection of 
penalties.''.
    (2) Section 607 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
U.S.C. 1387) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``There is'' and inserting ``(a) In 
        General.--There is''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Treatment of Great Lakes Cleanup Fund.--For purposes of this 
title, amounts made available from the Great Lakes Cleanup Fund under 
section 519 shall be treated as funds authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this title and as funds made available under this title, 
except that the funds shall be made available to the Great Lakes States 
in accordance with section 519.''.

                   stewardship contracting amendments

    Sec. 429.  Section 604(d) of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act of 
2003 (16 U.S.C. 6591), as amended by the Agricultural Act of 2014 
(Public Law 113-79), is further amended--
     (a) in paragraph (5), by adding at the end the following: 
``Notwithstanding the Materials Act of 1947 (30 U.S.C. 602(a)), the 
Director may enter into an agreement or contract under subsection 
(b).''; and
    (b) in paragraph (7), by striking ``and the Director''.

                      extension of grazing permits

    Sec. 430.  The terms and conditions of section 325 of Public Law 
108-108 (117 Stat. 1307), regarding grazing permits issued by the 
Forest Service on any lands not subject to administration under section 
402 of Federal Lands Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1752), shall 
remain in effect for fiscal year 2016.

                          financial assurance

    Sec. 431.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to develop, propose, finalize, implement, enforce, or administer any 
regulation that would establish new financial responsibility 
requirements pursuant to section 108(b) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
U.S.C. 9608(b)).

                             nepa guidance

    Sec. 432.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by any Federal agency to develop, adopt, implement, enforce, or 
administer guidance or regulations published in (1) 79 Fed. Reg. 77,802 
dated December 24, 2014; and (2) 79 Fed. Reg. 76,986, dated December 
23, 2014.

                        good neighbor authority

    Sec. 433.  Section 8206(b)(2) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (16 
USC 2113a(b)(2)) is amended by adding at the end of the following:
                    ``(C) Forest development roads.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding 
                        subsection (a)(3)(B), existing roads shall be 
                        repaired or reconstructed to a satisfactory 
                        condition to perform authorized restoration 
                        services including removal of timber.''.

                   TITLE V--WILDFIRE DISASTER FUNDING

SEC. 501. WILDFIRE DISASTER FUNDING AUTHORITY.

    (a) Disaster Funding.--Section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(D)) is 
amended--
            (1) in clause (i)--
                    (A) in subclause (I), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end and inserting ``plus'';
                    (B) in subclause (II), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; less''; and
                    (C) by adding the following:
                                    ``(III) the additional new budget 
                                authority provided in an appropriation 
                                Act for wildfire suppression operations 
                                pursuant to subparagraph (E) for the 
                                preceding fiscal year.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(v) Beginning in fiscal year 2018, and 
                        for each fiscal year thereafter, the 
                        calculation of the `average funding provided 
                        for disaster relief over the previous 10 years' 
                        shall include, for each year within that 
                        average, the additional new budget authority 
                        provided in an appropriation Act for wildfire 
                        suppression operations pursuant to subparagraph 
                        (E) for the preceding fiscal year.''.
    (b) Wildfire Suppression.--Section 251(b)(2) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) Wildfire suppression.--
                            ``(i) Definitions.--In this subparagraph:
                                    ``(I) Additional new budget 
                                authority.--The term `additional new 
                                budget authority' means the amount 
                                provided for a fiscal year in an 
                                appropriation Act that is--
                                            ``(aa) in excess of 100 
                                        percent of the average costs 
                                        for wildfire suppression 
                                        operations over the previous 10 
                                        years; and
                                            ``(bb) specified to pay for 
                                        the costs of wildfire 
                                        suppression operations.
                                    ``(II) Wildfire suppression 
                                operations.--The term `wildfire 
                                suppression operations' means the 
                                emergency and unpredictable aspects of 
                                wildland firefighting, including--
                                            ``(aa) support, response, 
                                        and emergency stabilization 
                                        activities;
                                            ``(bb) other emergency 
                                        management activities; and
                                            ``(cc) the funds necessary 
                                        to repay any transfers needed 
                                        for the costs of wildfire 
                                        suppression operations.
                            ``(ii) Additional new budget authority.--If 
                        a bill or joint resolution making 
                        appropriations for a fiscal year is enacted 
                        that specifies an amount for wildfire 
                        suppression operations in the Wildland Fire 
                        Management accounts at the Department of 
                        Agriculture or the Department of the Interior, 
                        then the adjustments for that fiscal year shall 
                        be the amount of additional new budget 
                        authority provided in that Act for wildfire 
                        suppression operations for that fiscal year, 
                        but shall not exceed--
                                    ``(I) for fiscal year 2016, 
                                $1,460,000,000 in additional new budget 
                                authority;
                                    ``(II) for fiscal year 2017, 
                                $1,557,000,000 in additional new budget 
                                authority;
                                    ``(III) for fiscal year 2018, 
                                $1,778,000,000 in additional new budget 
                                authority;
                                    ``(IV) for fiscal year 2019, 
                                $2,030,000,000 in additional new budget 
                                authority;
                                    ``(V) for fiscal year 2020, 
                                $2,319,000,000 in additional new budget 
                                authority; and
                                    ``(VI) for fiscal year 2021, 
                                $2,650,000,000 in additional new budget 
                                authority.
                            ``(iii) Average cost calculation.--The 
                        average costs for wildfire suppression 
                        operations over the previous 10 years shall be 
                        calculated annually and reported in the budget 
                        of the President submitted under section 
                        1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for 
                        each fiscal year.''.

SEC. 502. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Supplemental Appropriations.--If the Secretary of the Interior 
or the Secretary of Agriculture determines that supplemental 
appropriations are necessary for a fiscal year for wildfire suppression 
operations, a request for the supplemental appropriations shall 
promptly be submitted to Congress.
    (b) Notice of Need for Additional Funds.--Prior to the obligation 
of any of the additional new budget authority for wildfire suppression 
operations specified for purposes of section 251(b)(2)(E)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
901(b)(2)(E)(ii)), the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
Agriculture, as applicable, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations and the Budget of the House of Representatives and the 
Committees on Appropriations and the Budget of the Senate written 
notification that describes--
            (1) that the amount for wildfire suppression operations to 
        meet the terms of section 251(b)(2)(E) of that Act for that 
        fiscal year will be exhausted imminently; and
            (2) the need for additional new budget authority for 
        wildfire suppression operations.
    (c) Accounting, Reports and Accountability.--
            (1) Accounting and reporting requirements.--For each fiscal 
        year, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall account for and report on the amounts used 
        from the additional new budget authority for wildfire 
        suppression operations provided to the Secretary of the 
        Interior or Secretary of Agriculture, as applicable, in an 
        appropriations Act pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(E)(ii) of the 
        Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 
        U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(E)(ii)).
            (2) Annual report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                end of the fiscal year for which additional new budget 
                authority is used, pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(E)(ii) 
                of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
                Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(E)(ii)), the Secretary 
                of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture, as 
                applicable, shall--
                            (i) prepare an annual report with respect 
                        to the additional new budget authority;
                            (ii) submit to the Committees on 
                        Appropriations, the Budget, and Natural 
                        Resources of the House of Representatives and 
                        the Committees on Appropriations, the Budget, 
                        and Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
                        the annual report prepared under clause (i); 
                        and
                            (iii) make the report prepared under clause 
                        (i) available to the public.
                    (B) Components.--The annual report prepared under 
                subparagraph (A) shall--
                            (i) document risk-based factors that 
                        influenced management decisions with respect to 
                        wildfire suppression operations;
                            (ii) analyze a statistically significant 
                        sample of large fires, including an analysis 
                        for each fire of--
                                    (I) cost drivers;
                                    (II) the effectiveness of risk 
                                management techniques and whether fire 
                                operations strategy tracked the risk 
                                assessment;
                                    (III) any resulting ecological or 
                                other benefits to the landscape;
                                    (IV) the impact of investments in 
                                wildfire suppression operations 
                                preparedness;
                                    (V) effectiveness of wildfire 
                                suppression operations, including an 
                                analysis of resources lost versus 
                                dollars invested;
                                    (VI) effectiveness of any fuel 
                                treatments on fire behavior and 
                                suppression expenditures;
                                    (VII) suggested corrective actions; 
                                and
                                    (VIII) any other factors the 
                                Secretary of the Interior or Secretary 
                                of Agriculture determines to be 
                                appropriate;
                            (iii) include an accounting of overall fire 
                        management and spending by the Department of 
                        the Interior or the Department of Agriculture, 
                        which shall be analyzed by fire size, cost, 
                        regional location, and other factors;
                            (iv) describe any lessons learned in the 
                        conduct of wildfire suppression operations; and
                            (v) include any other elements that the 
                        Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
                        Agriculture determines to be necessary.
    This division may be cited as the ``Department of the Interior, 
Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016''.

   DIVISION C--DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND 
        EDUCATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016

                                TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    training and employment services

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
Act (referred to in this Act as ``WIOA''), and the Second Chance Act of 
2007, $2,936,244,000, plus reimbursements, shall be available. Of the 
amounts provided:
            (1) for grants to States for adult employment and training 
        activities, youth activities, and dislocated worker employment 
        and training activities, $2,492,000,000 as follows:
                    (A) $737,000,000 for adult employment and training 
                activities, of which $25,000,000 shall be available for 
                the period July 1, 2016, through June 30, 2017, and of 
                which $712,000,000 shall be available for the period 
                October 1, 2016, through June 30, 2017;
                    (B) $790,000,000 for youth activities, which shall 
                be available for the period April 1, 2016, through June 
                30, 2017; and
                    (C) $965,000,000 for dislocated worker employment 
                and training activities, of which $105,000,000 shall be 
                available for the period July 1, 2016, through June 30, 
                2017, and of which $860,000,000 shall be available for 
                the period October 1, 2016, through June 30, 2017:
  Provided, That pursuant to section 128(a)(1) of the WIOA, the amount 
available to the Governor for statewide workforce investment activities 
shall not exceed 15 percent of the amount allotted to the State from 
each of the appropriations under the preceding subparagraphs; and
            (2) for national programs, $444,244,000 as follows:
                    (A) $200,000,000 for the dislocated workers 
                assistance national reserve, which shall be available 
                for the period October 1, 2016 through September 30, 
                2017:  Provided, That funds provided to carry out 
                section 132(a)(2)(A) of the WIOA may be used to provide 
                assistance to a State for statewide or local use in 
                order to address cases where there have been worker 
                dislocations across multiple sectors or across multiple 
                local areas and such workers remain dislocated; 
                coordinate the State workforce development plan with 
                emerging economic development needs; and train such 
                eligible dislocated workers:  Provided further, That 
                funds provided to carry out sections 168(b) and 169(c) 
                of the WIOA may be used for technical assistance and 
                demonstration projects, respectively, that provide 
                assistance to new entrants in the workforce and 
                incumbent workers:  Provided further, That 
                notwithstanding section 168(b) of the WIOA, of the 
                funds provided under this subparagraph, the Secretary 
                of Labor (referred to in this title as ``Secretary'') 
                may reserve not more than 10 percent of such funds to 
                provide technical assistance and carry out additional 
                activities related to the transition to the WIOA:  
                Provided further, That, of the funds provided under 
                this subparagraph, $19,000,000 shall be made available 
                for applications submitted in accordance with section 
                170 of the WIOA for training and employment assistance 
                for workers dislocated from coal mines and coal-fired 
                power plants;
                    (B) $40,500,000 for Native American programs under 
                section 166 of the WIOA, which shall be available for 
                the period July 1, 2016, through June 30, 2017;
                    (C) $23,750,000, which shall be available for the 
                period October 1, 2015, through September 30, 2016, for 
                necessary expenses for the Office of Disability 
                Employment Policy to develop policy and initiatives 
                furthering the objective of eliminating barriers to the 
                training and employment of people with disabilities, 
                including funds for competitive grants:  Provided, 
                That, not later than 180 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, the Office of Disability 
                Employment Policy in the Department of Labor shall be 
                placed in the Employment and Training Administration, 
                and the functions and duties previously assigned to the 
                Assistant Secretary for Disability Employment Policy 
                shall hereafter be assigned to the Assistant Secretary 
                for Employment and Training.
                    (D) $73,000,000 for migrant and seasonal farmworker 
                programs under section 167 of the WIOA, including 
                $67,306,000 for formula grants (of which not less than 
                70 percent shall be for employment and training 
                services), $5,200,000 for migrant and seasonal housing 
                (of which not less than 70 percent shall be for 
                permanent housing), and $494,000 for other 
                discretionary purposes, which shall be available for 
                the period July 1, 2016, through June 30, 2017:  
                Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
                law or related regulation, the Department of Labor 
                shall take no action limiting the number or proportion 
                of eligible participants receiving related assistance 
                services or discouraging grantees from providing such 
                services;
                    (E) $79,689,000 for YouthBuild activities as 
                described in section 171 of the WIOA, which shall be 
                available for the period April 1, 2016, through June 
                30, 2017;
                    (F) $1,000,000 for technical assistance activities 
                under section 168 of the WIOA, which shall be available 
                for the period July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017;
                    (G) $22,305,000 for ex-offender activities, under 
                the authority of section 169 of the WIOA and section 
                212 of the Second Chance Act of 2007, which shall be 
                available for the period April 1, 2016, through June 
                30, 2017:  Provided, That such funds shall be for 
                competitive grants to national and regional 
                intermediaries for activities that prepare adult and 
                young ex-offenders and school dropouts for employment, 
                with a priority for projects serving high crime, high-
                poverty areas and communities that have recently 
                experienced significant unrest;
                    (H) $4,000,000 for the Workforce Data Quality 
                Initiative, under the authority of section 169 of the 
                WIOA, which shall be available for the period July 1, 
                2016 through June 30, 2017.

                               job corps

                     (including transfer of funds)

    To carry out subtitle C of title I of the WIOA, including Federal 
administrative expenses, the purchase and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, the construction, alteration, and repairs of buildings and 
other facilities, and the purchase of real property for training 
centers as authorized by the WIOA, $1,683,155,000, plus reimbursements, 
as follows:
            (1) $1,578,008,000 for Job Corps Operations, which shall be 
        available for the period July 1, 2016, through June 30, 2017;
            (2) $74,000,000 for construction, rehabilitation and 
        acquisition of Job Corps Centers, which shall be available for 
        the period July 1, 2016, through June 30, 2019, and which may 
        include the acquisition, maintenance, and repair of major items 
        of equipment:  Provided, That the Secretary may transfer up to 
        15 percent of such funds to meet the operational needs of such 
        centers or to achieve administrative efficiencies:  Provided 
        further, That any funds transferred pursuant to the preceding 
        proviso shall not be available for obligation after June 30, 
        2017:  Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations 
        of the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at 
        least 15 days in advance of any transfer; and
            (3) $31,147,000 for necessary expenses of Job Corps, which 
        shall be available for obligation for the period October 1, 
        2015 through September 30, 2016:
  Provided, That no funds from any other appropriation shall be used to 
provide meal services at or for Job Corps centers.

            community service employment for older americans

    To carry out title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (referred 
to in this Act as ``OAA''), $400,000,000, which shall be available for 
the period July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017, and may be recaptured 
and reobligated in accordance with section 517(c) of the OAA.

              federal unemployment benefits and allowances

    For payments during fiscal year 2016 of trade adjustment benefit 
payments and allowances under part I of subchapter B of chapter 2 of 
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, and section 246 of that Act; and for 
training, employment and case management services, allowances for job 
search and relocation, and related State administrative expenses under 
part II of subchapter B of chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 
1974, and including benefit payments, allowances, training, employment 
and case management services, and related State administration provided 
pursuant to section 231(a) and section 233(b) of the Trade Adjustment 
Assistance Extension Act of 2011, $664,200,000, together with such 
amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
appropriation for payments for any period subsequent to September 15, 
2016.

     state unemployment insurance and employment service operations

    For authorized administrative expenses, $86,428,000, together with 
not to exceed $3,413,133,000 which may be expended from the Employment 
Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund (``the 
Trust Fund''), of which:
            (1) $2,705,550,000 from the Trust Fund is for grants to 
        States for the administration of State unemployment insurance 
        laws as authorized under title III of the Social Security Act 
        (including not less than $80,000,000 to conduct in-person 
        reemployment and eligibility assessments and unemployment 
        insurance improper payment reviews, and to provide reemployment 
        services and referrals to training as appropriate, and 
        $3,000,000 for continued support of the Unemployment Insurance 
        Integrity Center of Excellence), the administration of 
        unemployment insurance for Federal employees and for ex-service 
        members as authorized under 5 U.S.C. 8501-8523, and the 
        administration of trade readjustment allowances, reemployment 
        trade adjustment assistance, and alternative trade adjustment 
        assistance under the Trade Act of 1974 and under sections 
        231(a) and 233(b) of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Extension 
        Act of 2011, and shall be available for obligation by the 
        States through December 31, 2016, except that funds used for 
        automation acquisitions shall be available for Federal 
        obligation through December 31, 2016, and for State obligation 
        through September 30, 2018, or, if the automation acquisition 
        is being carried out through consortia of States, for State 
        obligation through September 30, 2021, and for expenditure 
        through September 30, 2022, and funds for competitive grants 
        awarded to States for improved operations and to conduct in-
        person assessments and reviews and provide reemployment 
        services and referrals shall be available for Federal 
        obligation through December 31, 2016, and for obligation by the 
        States through September 30, 2018, and funds used for 
        unemployment insurance workloads experienced by the States 
        through September 30, 2016, shall be available for Federal 
        obligation through December 31, 2016;
            (2) $12,892,000 from the Trust Fund is for national 
        activities necessary to support the administration of the 
        Federal-State unemployment insurance system;
            (3) $614,000,000 from the Trust Fund, together with 
        $20,775,000 from the General Fund of the Treasury, is for 
        grants to States in accordance with section 6 of the Wagner-
        Peyser Act, and shall be available for Federal obligation for 
        the period July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017;
            (4) $19,000,000 from the Trust Fund is for national 
        activities of the Employment Service, including administration 
        of the work opportunity tax credit under section 51 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and the provision of technical 
        assistance and staff training under the Wagner-Peyser Act;
            (5) $61,691,000 from the Trust Fund is for the 
        administration of foreign labor certifications and related 
        activities under the Immigration and Nationality Act and 
        related laws, of which $47,691,000 shall be available for the 
        Federal administration of such activities, and $14,000,000 
        shall be available for grants to States for the administration 
        of such activities; and
            (6) $65,653,000 from the General Fund is to provide 
        workforce information, national electronic tools, and one-stop 
        system building under the Wagner-Peyser Act, including 
        $7,500,000 for grants relating to occupational licensing, and 
        shall be available for Federal obligation for the period July 
        1, 2016 through June 30, 2017:
  Provided, That to the extent that the Average Weekly Insured 
Unemployment (``AWIU'') for fiscal year 2016 is projected by the 
Department of Labor to exceed 2,957,000, an additional $28,600,000 from 
the Trust Fund shall be available for obligation for every 100,000 
increase in the AWIU level (including a pro rata amount for any 
increment less than 100,000) to carry out title III of the Social 
Security Act:  Provided further, That funds appropriated in this Act 
that are allotted to a State to carry out activities under title III of 
the Social Security Act may be used by such State to assist other 
States in carrying out activities under such title III if the other 
States include areas that have suffered a major disaster declared by 
the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary may use 
funds appropriated for grants to States under title III of the Social 
Security Act to make payments on behalf of States for the use of the 
National Directory of New Hires under section 453(j)(8) of such Act:  
Provided further, That the Secretary may use funds appropriated for 
grants to States under title III of the Social Security Act to make 
payments on behalf of States to the entity operating the State 
Information Data Exchange System:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated in this Act which are used to establish a national one-
stop career center system, or which are used to support the national 
activities of the Federal-State unemployment insurance, employment 
service, or immigration programs, may be obligated in contracts, 
grants, or agreements with States and non-State entities:  Provided 
further, That States awarded competitive grants for improved operations 
under title III of the Social Security Act, or awarded grants to 
support the national activities of the Federal-State unemployment 
insurance system, may award subgrants to other States under such 
grants, subject to the conditions applicable to the grants:  Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this Act for activities 
authorized under title III of the Social Security Act and the Wagner-
Peyser Act may be used by States to fund integrated Unemployment 
Insurance and Employment Service automation efforts, notwithstanding 
cost allocation principles prescribed under the Office of Management 
and Budget Circular A-87:  Provided further, That the Secretary, at the 
request of a State participating in a consortium with other States, may 
reallot funds allotted to such State under title III of the Social 
Security Act to other States participating in the consortium in order 
to carry out activities that benefit the administration of the 
unemployment compensation law of the State making the request:  
Provided further, That the Secretary may collect fees for the costs 
associated with additional data collection, analyses, and reporting 
services relating to the National Agricultural Workers Survey requested 
by State and local governments, public and private institutions of 
higher education, and nonprofit organizations and may utilize such 
sums, in accordance with the provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, for the 
National Agricultural Workers Survey infrastructure, methodology, and 
data to meet the information collection and reporting needs of such 
entities, which shall be credited to this appropriation and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2017, for such purposes.
     In addition, $20,000,000 from the Employment Security 
Administration Account of the Unemployment Trust Fund shall be 
available for in-person reemployment and eligibility assessments and 
unemployment insurance improper payment reviews and to provide 
reemployment services and referrals to training as appropriate, which 
shall be available for Federal obligations through December 31, 2016, 
and for State obligation through September 30, 2018.

        advances to the unemployment trust fund and other funds

    For repayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized 
by sections 905(d) and 1203 of the Social Security Act, and to the 
Black Lung Disability Trust Fund as authorized by section 9501(c)(1) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and for nonrepayable advances to the 
revolving fund established by section 901(e) of the Social Security 
Act, to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 8509, and 
to the ``Federal Unemployment Benefits and Allowances'' account, such 
sums as may be necessary, which shall be available for obligation 
through September 30, 2017.

                         program administration

    For expenses of administering employment and training programs, 
$97,733,000, together with not to exceed $46,284,000 which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration Account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

               Employee Benefits Security Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Employee Benefits Security 
Administration, $168,930,000.

                  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation

               pension benefit guaranty corporation fund

    The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (``Corporation'') is 
authorized to make such expenditures, including financial assistance 
authorized by subtitle E of title IV of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974, within limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to the Corporation, and in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, as 
provided by 31 U.S.C. 9104, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program, including associated administrative expenses, through 
September 30, 2016, for the Corporation:  Provided, That none of the 
funds available to the Corporation for fiscal year 2016 shall be 
available for obligations for administrative expenses in excess of 
$431,799,000:  Provided further, That to the extent that the number of 
new plan participants in plans terminated by the Corporation exceeds 
100,000 in fiscal year 2016, an amount not to exceed an additional 
$9,200,000 shall be available through September 30, 2017, for 
obligation for administrative expenses for every 20,000 additional 
terminated participants:  Provided further, That obligations in excess 
of the amounts provided in this paragraph may be incurred for 
unforeseen and extraordinary pretermination expenses or extraordinary 
multiemployer program related expenses after approval by the Office of 
Management and Budget and notification of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

                         Wage and Hour Division

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Wage and Hour Division, including 
reimbursement to State, Federal, and local agencies and their employees 
for inspection services rendered, $210,000,000.

                  Office of Labor-Management Standards

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Labor-Management 
Standards, $36,000,000.

             Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Federal Contract 
Compliance Programs, $96,000,000.

                Office of Workers' Compensation Programs

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Workers' Compensation 
Programs, $107,500,000, together with $2,177,000 which may be expended 
from the Special Fund in accordance with sections 39(c), 44(d), and 
44(j) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.

                            special benefits

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses (except 
administrative expenses) accruing during the current or any prior 
fiscal year authorized by 5 U.S.C. 81; continuation of benefits as 
provided for under the heading ``Civilian War Benefits'' in the Federal 
Security Agency Appropriation Act, 1947; the Employees' Compensation 
Commission Appropriation Act, 1944; section 5(f) of the War Claims Act 
(50 U.S.C. App. 2004); obligations incurred under the War Hazards 
Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and 50 percent of the 
additional compensation and benefits required by section 10(h) of the 
Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, $210,000,000, together 
with such amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
year appropriation for the payment of compensation and other benefits 
for any period subsequent to August 15 of the current year, for deposit 
into and to assume the attributes of the Employees' Compensation Fund 
established under 5 U.S.C. 8147(a):  Provided, That amounts 
appropriated may be used under 5 U.S.C. 8104 by the Secretary to 
reimburse an employer, who is not the employer at the time of injury, 
for portions of the salary of a re-employed, disabled beneficiary:  
Provided further, That balances of reimbursements unobligated on 
September 30, 2015, shall remain available until expended for the 
payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses:  Provided further, 
That in addition there shall be transferred to this appropriation from 
the Postal Service and from any other corporation or instrumentality 
required under 5 U.S.C. 8147(c) to pay an amount for its fair share of 
the cost of administration, such sums as the Secretary determines to be 
the cost of administration for employees of such fair share entities 
through September 30, 2016:  Provided further, That of those funds 
transferred to this account from the fair share entities to pay the 
cost of administration of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, 
$62,170,000 shall be made available to the Secretary as follows--
            (1) for enhancement and maintenance of automated data 
        processing systems operations and telecommunications systems, 
        $21,140,000;
            (2) for automated workload processing operations, including 
        document imaging, centralized mail intake, and medical bill 
        processing, $22,968,000;
            (3) for periodic roll disability management and medical 
        review, $16,668,000;
            (4) for program integrity, $1,394,000; and
            (5) the remaining funds shall be paid into the Treasury as 
        miscellaneous receipts:
  Provided further, That the Secretary may require that any person 
filing a notice of injury or a claim for benefits under 5 U.S.C. 81, or 
the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, provide as part of 
such notice and claim, such identifying information (including Social 
Security account number) as such regulations may prescribe.

               special benefits for disabled coal miners

    For carrying out title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act 
of 1977, as amended by Public Law 107-275, $69,302,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    For making after July 31 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title IV of such Act, for costs incurred 
in the current fiscal year, such amounts as may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title IV for the first quarter of 
fiscal year 2017, $19,000,000, to remain available until expended.

    administrative expenses, energy employees occupational illness 
                           compensation fund

    For necessary expenses to administer the Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, $58,552,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That the Secretary may require 
that any person filing a claim for benefits under the Act provide as 
part of such claim such identifying information (including Social 
Security account number) as may be prescribed.

                    black lung disability trust fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Such sums as may be necessary from the Black Lung Disability Trust 
Fund (the ``Fund''), to remain available until expended, for payment of 
all benefits authorized by section 9501(d)(1), (2), (6), and (7) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and repayment of, and payment of 
interest on advances, as authorized by section 9501(d)(4) of that Act. 
In addition, the following amounts may be expended from the Fund for 
fiscal year 2016 for expenses of operation and administration of the 
Black Lung Benefits program, as authorized by section 9501(d)(5): not 
to exceed $35,244,000 for transfer to the Office of Workers' 
Compensation Programs, ``Salaries and Expenses''; not to exceed 
$30,279,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, ``Salaries and 
Expenses''; not to exceed $327,000 for transfer to Departmental 
Management, ``Office of Inspector General''; and not to exceed $356,000 
for payments into miscellaneous receipts for the expenses of the 
Department of the Treasury.

             Occupational Safety and Health Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration, $524,476,000, including not to exceed $98,746,000 which 
shall be the maximum amount available for grants to States under 
section 23(g) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (the ``Act''), 
which grants shall be no less than 50 percent of the costs of State 
occupational safety and health programs required to be incurred under 
plans approved by the Secretary under section 18 of the Act; and, in 
addition, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration may retain up to $499,000 per fiscal year of 
training institute course tuition and fees, otherwise authorized by law 
to be collected, and may utilize such sums for occupational safety and 
health training and education:  Provided, That notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary is authorized, during the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2016, to collect and retain fees for services provided to 
Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratories, and may utilize such sums, 
in accordance with the provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, to administer 
national and international laboratory recognition programs that ensure 
the safety of equipment and products used by workers in the workplace:  
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
paragraph shall be obligated or expended to prescribe, issue, 
administer, or enforce any standard, rule, regulation, or order under 
the Act which is applicable to any person who is engaged in a farming 
operation which does not maintain a temporary labor camp and employs 10 
or fewer employees:  Provided further, That no funds appropriated under 
this paragraph shall be obligated or expended to administer or enforce 
any standard, rule, regulation, or order under the Act with respect to 
any employer of 10 or fewer employees who is included within a category 
having a Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred (``DART'') occupational 
injury and illness rate, at the most precise industrial classification 
code for which such data are published, less than the national average 
rate as such rates are most recently published by the Secretary, acting 
through the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in accordance with section 24 
of the Act, except--
            (1) to provide, as authorized by the Act, consultation, 
        technical assistance, educational and training services, and to 
        conduct surveys and studies;
            (2) to conduct an inspection or investigation in response 
        to an employee complaint, to issue a citation for violations 
        found during such inspection, and to assess a penalty for 
        violations which are not corrected within a reasonable 
        abatement period and for any willful violations found;
            (3) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
        to imminent dangers;
            (4) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
        to health hazards;
            (5) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
        to a report of an employment accident which is fatal to one or 
        more employees or which results in hospitalization of two or 
        more employees, and to take any action pursuant to such 
        investigation authorized by the Act; and
            (6) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
        to complaints of discrimination against employees for 
        exercising rights under the Act:
  Provided further, That the foregoing proviso shall not apply to any 
person who is engaged in a farming operation which does not maintain a 
temporary labor camp and employs 10 or fewer employees:  Provided 
further, That $10,149,000 shall be available for Susan Harwood training 
grants:  Provided further, That not less than $3,500,000 shall be 
available for Voluntary Protection Programs.

                 Mine Safety and Health Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration, $356,878,000, including purchase and bestowal of 
certificates and trophies in connection with mine rescue and first-aid 
work, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles, including up to 
$2,000,000 for mine rescue and recovery activities and not less than 
$8,229,975 for state assistance grants:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
31 U.S.C. 3302, not to exceed $750,000 may be collected by the National 
Mine Health and Safety Academy for room, board, tuition, and the sale 
of training materials, otherwise authorized by law to be collected, to 
be available for mine safety and health education and training 
activities:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the 
Mine Safety and Health Administration is authorized to collect and 
retain up to $2,499,000 from fees collected for the approval and 
certification of equipment, materials, and explosives for use in mines, 
and may utilize such sums for such activities:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary is authorized to accept lands, buildings, equipment, and 
other contributions from public and private sources and to prosecute 
projects in cooperation with other agencies, Federal, State, or 
private:  Provided further, That the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration is authorized to promote health and safety education and 
training in the mining community through cooperative programs with 
States, industry, and safety associations:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary is authorized to recognize the Joseph A. Holmes Safety 
Association as a principal safety association and, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, may provide funds and, with or without 
reimbursement, personnel, including service of Mine Safety and Health 
Administration officials as officers in local chapters or in the 
national organization:  Provided further, That any funds available to 
the Department of Labor may be used, with the approval of the 
Secretary, to provide for the costs of mine rescue and survival 
operations in the event of a major disaster.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
including advances or reimbursements to State, Federal, and local 
agencies and their employees for services rendered, $515,494,000, 
together with not to exceed $63,700,000 which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund.

                        Departmental Management

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management, including the 
hire of three passenger motor vehicles, $258,727,000, together with not 
to exceed $293,000, which may be expended from the Employment Security 
Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund:  Provided, That 
funds available to the Bureau of International Labor Affairs may be 
used to administer or operate international labor activities, bilateral 
and multilateral technical assistance, and microfinance programs, by or 
through contracts, grants, subgrants and other arrangements:  Provided 
further, That $7,236,000 shall be used for program evaluation and shall 
be available for obligation through September 30, 2017:  Provided 
further, That funds available for program evaluation may be transferred 
to any other appropriate account in the Department for such purpose:  
Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance 
of any transfer:  Provided further, That the funds available to the 
Women's Bureau may be used for grants to serve and promote the 
interests of women in the workforce.

                    veterans employment and training

    Not to exceed $231,872,000 may be derived from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund to carry 
out the provisions of chapters 41, 42, and 43 of title 38, United 
States Code, of which:
            (1) $175,000,000 is for Jobs for Veterans State grants 
        under 38 U.S.C. 4102A(b)(5) to support disabled veterans' 
        outreach program specialists under section 4103A of such title 
        and local veterans' employment representatives under section 
        4104(b) of such title, and for the expenses described in 
        section 4102A(b)(5)(C), which shall be available for obligation 
        by the States through December 31, 2016, and not to exceed 3 
        percent for the necessary Federal expenditures for data systems 
        and contract support to allow for the tracking of participant 
        and performance information:  Provided, That, in addition, such 
        funds may be used to support such specialists and 
        representatives in the provision of services to transitioning 
        members of the Armed Forces who have participated in the 
        Transition Assistance Program and have been identified as in 
        need of intensive services, to members of the Armed Forces who 
        are wounded, ill, or injured and receiving treatment in 
        military treatment facilities or warrior transition units, and 
        to the spouses or other family caregivers of such wounded, ill, 
        or injured members;
            (2) $14,000,000 is for carrying out the Transition 
        Assistance Program under 38 U.S.C. 4113 and 10 U.S.C. 1144;
            (3) $39,458,000 is for Federal administration of chapters 
        41, 42, and 43 of title 38, United States Code; and
            (4) $3,414,000 is for the National Veterans' Employment and 
        Training Services Institute under 38 U.S.C. 4109:
  Provided, That the Secretary may reallocate among the appropriations 
provided under paragraphs (1) through (4) above an amount not to exceed 
3 percent of the appropriation from which such reallocation is made.
    In addition, from the General Fund of the Treasury, $38,109,000 is 
for carrying out programs to assist homeless veterans and veterans at 
risk of homelessness who are transitioning from certain institutions 
under sections 2021, 2021A, and 2023 of title 38, United States Code:  
Provided, That notwithstanding subsections (c)(3) and (d) of section 
2023, the Secretary may award grants through September 30, 2016, to 
provide services under such section:  Provided further, That services 
provided under section 2023 may include, in addition to services to the 
individuals described in subsection (e) of such section, services to 
veterans recently released from incarceration who are at risk of 
homelessness.

                            it modernization

    For necessary expenses for Department of Labor centralized 
infrastructure technology investment activities related to support 
systems and modernization, $12,898,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$73,721,000, together with not to exceed $5,590,000 which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for the Job 
Corps shall be used to pay the salary and bonuses of an individual, 
either as direct costs or any proration as an indirect cost, at a rate 
in excess of Executive Level II.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 102.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Labor in this Act may be transferred between a program, 
project, or activity, but no such program, project, or activity shall 
be increased by more than 3 percent by any such transfer:  Provided, 
That the transfer authority granted by this section shall not be used 
to create any new program or to fund any project or activity for which 
no funds are provided in this Act:  Provided further, That the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 103.  In accordance with Executive Order 13126, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act 
shall be obligated or expended for the procurement of goods mined, 
produced, manufactured, or harvested or services rendered, in whole or 
in part, by forced or indentured child labor in industries and host 
countries already identified by the United States Department of Labor 
prior to enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, none of 
the funds made available to the Department of Labor for grants under 
section 414(c) of the American Competitiveness and Workforce 
Improvement Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2916a) may be used for any purpose 
other than competitive grants for training individuals who are older 
than 16 years of age and are not currently enrolled in school within a 
local educational agency in the occupations and industries for which 
employers are using H-1B visas to hire foreign workers, and the related 
activities necessary to support such training:  Provided, That 
$13,000,000 of such funds shall be used in fiscal year 2016 to process 
permanent foreign labor certifications under section 212(a)(5)(A) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(5)(A)):  Provided 
further, That the funding limitation under this section shall not apply 
to funding provided pursuant to solicitations for grant applications 
issued before January 15, 2014.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available by this Act under the 
heading ``Employment and Training Administration'' shall be used by a 
recipient or subrecipient of such funds to pay the salary and bonuses 
of an individual, either as direct costs or indirect costs, at a rate 
in excess of Executive Level II. This limitation shall not apply to 
vendors providing goods and services as defined in Office of Management 
and Budget Circular A-133. Where States are recipients of such funds, 
States may establish a lower limit for salaries and bonuses of those 
receiving salaries and bonuses from subrecipients of such funds, taking 
into account factors including the relative cost-of-living in the 
State, the compensation levels for comparable State or local government 
employees, and the size of the organizations that administer Federal 
programs involved including Employment and Training Administration 
programs.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 106.  Notwithstanding section 102, the Secretary may transfer 
funds made available to the Employment and Training Administration by 
this Act, either directly or through a set-aside, for technical 
assistance services to grantees to ``Program Administration'' when it 
is determined that those services will be more efficiently performed by 
Federal employees:  Provided, That this section shall not apply to 
section 171 of the WIOA.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 107. (a) The Secretary may reserve not more than 0.5 percent 
from each appropriation made available in this Act identified in 
subsection (b) in order to carry out evaluations of any of the programs 
or activities that are funded under such accounts. Any funds reserved 
under this section shall be transferred to ``Departmental Management'' 
for use by the Office of the Chief Evaluation Officer within the 
Department of Labor, and shall be available for obligation through 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such funds shall only be available 
if the Chief Evaluation Officer of the Department of Labor submits a 
plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate describing the evaluations to be carried 
out 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    (b) The accounts referred to in subsection (a) are: ``Training and 
Employment Services'', ``Job Corps'', ``Community Service Employment 
for Older Americans'', ``State Unemployment Insurance and Employment 
Service Operations'', ``Employee Benefits Security Administration'', 
``Office of Workers' Compensation Programs'', ``Wage and Hour 
Division'', ``Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs'', 
``Office of Labor Management Standards'', ``Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration'', ``Mine Safety and Health Administration'', 
funding made available to the ``Bureau of International Affairs'' and 
``Women's Bureau'' within the ``Departmental Management, Salaries and 
Expenses'' account, and ``Veterans Employment and Training''.
    Sec. 108.  Section 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 
U.S.C. 207) is amended by adding the following text to such section:
    ``(s)(1) The provisions of this section shall not apply for a 
period of 2 years after the occurrence of a major disaster, as defined 
herein, to any employee--
            ``(A) employed to adjust or evaluate claims resulting from 
        or relating to such major disaster, by an employer not engaged, 
        directly or through an affiliate, in underwriting, selling, or 
        marketing property, casualty, or liability insurance policies 
        or contracts;
            ``(B) who receives on average weekly compensation of not 
        less than $591.00 per week or any minimum weekly amount 
        established by the Secretary, whichever is greater, over the 
        number of weeks such employee is engaged in any of the 
        activities described in subparagraph (C); and
            ``(C) whose duties include any of the following:
                    ``(i) interviewing insured individuals, individuals 
                who suffered injuries or other damages or losses 
                arising from or relating to a disaster, witnesses, or 
                physicians;
                    ``(ii) inspecting property damage or reviewing 
                factual information to prepare damage estimates;
                    ``(iii) evaluating and making recommendations 
                regarding coverage or compensability of claims or 
                determining liability or value aspects of claims;
                    ``(iv) negotiating settlements; or
                    ``(v) making recommendations regarding litigation.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of section 18, in the 
event of a major disaster, this Act exclusively shall govern the 
payment of overtime to all employees described in paragraph (1) above, 
and shall supersede any other Federal, State, or local law, regulation, 
or order.
    ``(3) The exemption in this subsection shall not affect the 
exemption provided by section 13(a)(1).
    ``(4) For purposes of this subsection--
            ``(A) the term `major disaster' means any disaster or 
        catastrophe declared or designated by any State or Federal 
        agency or department;
            ``(B) the term `employee employed to adjust or evaluate 
        claims resulting from or relating to such major disaster' means 
        an individual who timely secured or secures a license required 
        by applicable law to engage in and perform any of the 
        activities described in clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph 
        (1)(C) relating to a major disaster, and is employed by an 
        employer that maintains worker compensation insurance coverage 
        or protection for its employees, if required by applicable law, 
        and withholds applicable Federal, State, and local income and 
        payroll taxes from the wages, salaries and any benefits of such 
        employees; and
            ``(C) the term `affiliate' means a company that, by reason 
        of ownership or control of percent or more of the outstanding 
        shares of any class of voting securities of one or more 
        companies, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, 
        or is under common control with, another company.''.
    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, beginning 
October 1, 2015, the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Agriculture may select an entity to operate a Civilian 
Conservation Center on a competitive basis in accordance with section 
147 of the WIOA, if the Secretary of Labor determines such Center has 
had consistently low performance under the performance accountability 
system in effect for the Job Corps program prior to July 1, 2016, or 
with respect to expected levels of performance established under 
section 159(c) of such Act beginning July 1, 2016.
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to finalize, implement, administer, or enforce the proposed Definition 
of the Term ``Fiduciary''; Conflict of Interest Rule--Retirement 
Investment Advice regulation published by the Department of Labor in 
the Federal Register on April 20, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 21928 et seq.).
    Sec. 111.  The determination of prevailing wage for the purposes of 
the H-2B program shall be the greater of--(1) the actual wage level 
paid by the employer to other employees with similar experience and 
qualifications for such position in the same location; or (2) the 
prevailing wage level for the occupational classification of the 
position in the geographic area in which the H-2B nonimmigrant will be 
employed, based on the best information available at the time of filing 
the petition. In the determination of prevailing wage for the purposes 
of the H-2B program, the Secretary shall accept private wage surveys 
even in instances where Occupational Employment Statistics survey data 
are available unless the Secretary determines that the methodology and 
data in the provided survey are not statistically supported.
    Sec. 112.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to enforce 
the definition of corresponding employment found in 20 CFR 655.5 or the 
three-fourths guarantee rule definition found in 20 CFR 655.20, or any 
references thereto. Further, for the purpose of regulating admission of 
temporary workers under the H-2B program, the definition of temporary 
need shall be that provided in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(ii)(B).
    Sec. 113.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
20 CFR 655.70 and 20 CFR 655.71.
    Sec. 114. (a) Flexibility With Respect to the Crossing of H-2B 
Nonimmigrants Working in the Seafood Industry.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), if a petition 
        for H-2B nonimmigrants filed by an employer in the seafood 
        industry is granted, the employer may bring the nonimmigrants 
        described in the petition into the United States at any time 
        during the 120-day period beginning on the start date for which 
        the employer is seeking the services of the nonimmigrants 
        without filing another petition.
            (2) Requirements for crossings after 90th day.--An employer 
        in the seafood industry may not bring H-2B nonimmigrants into 
        the United States after the date that is 90 days after the 
        start date for which the employer is seeking the services of 
        the nonimmigrants unless the employer--
                    (A) completes a new assessment of the local labor 
                market by--
                            (i) listing job orders in local newspapers 
                        on 2 separate Sundays; and
                            (ii) posting the job opportunity on the 
                        appropriate Department of Labor Electronic Job 
                        Registry and at the employer's place of 
                        employment; and
                    (B) offers the job to an equally or better 
                qualified United States worker who--
                            (i) applies for the job; and
                            (ii) will be available at the time and 
                        place of need.
            (3) Exemption from rules with respect to staggering.--The 
        Secretary of Labor shall not consider an employer in the 
        seafood industry who brings H-2B nonimmigrants into the United 
        States during the 120-day period specified in paragraph (1) to 
        be staggering the date of need in violation of section 
        655.20(d) of title 20, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
        other applicable provision of law.
    (b) H-2B Nonimmigrants Defined.--In this section, the term ``H-2B 
nonimmigrants'' means aliens admitted to the United States pursuant to 
section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(B)).
    Sec. 115. (a) Subject to the requirement under subsection (b), none 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may 
be used to promulgate or implement any rule, standard, or policy 
amending part 1910, 1915, or 1926 of title 29, Code of Federal 
Regulations (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
this Act), related to occupational exposure to respirable crystalline 
silica, including the proposed rulemaking by the Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration of the Department of Labor issued on 
September 12, 2013 (78 Fed. Reg. 56274), until--
            (1) a review is conducted after the date of enactment of 
        this Act by a small business advocacy review panel, pursuant to 
        the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 
        (5 U.S.C. 601 note), and the panel delivers a report on the 
        review to the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational 
        Safety and Health;
            (2) the Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary 
        of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, commissions an 
        independent study, to be conducted by the National Academy of 
        Sciences, examining--
                    (A) the epidemiological justification of the 
                Occupational Safety and Health Administration for 
                proposing to reduce the occupational exposure limits to 
                respirable crystalline silica, established by such 
                Administration and in effect on the day before the date 
                of enactment of this Act, including consideration of 
                the prevalence or lack of disease and mortality 
                associated with such occupational exposure limits;
                    (B) the ability of sampling methods to collect 
                samples of respirable crystalline silica and 
                laboratories to measure such samples (in a manner that 
                meets the criteria for accuracy and precision contained 
                in the most recent publication of the NIOSH Manual of 
                Analytical Methods, published by the National Institute 
                for Occupational Safety and Health) to determine 
                occupational exposures to respirable crystalline silica 
                that are less than or equal to the occupational 
                exposure limits and action levels for respirable 
                crystalline silica proposed by the Occupational Safety 
                and Health Administration as of the day before the date 
                of enactment of this Act;
                    (C) the ability of regulated industries to comply 
                with such occupational exposure limits or action 
                levels;
                    (D) the steady decline in silicosis related 
                mortality rates based on data maintained by the Centers 
                for Disease Control and Prevention;
                    (E) the ability of various types of personal 
                protective equipment to protect employees from 
                occupational exposure to respirable crystalline silica; 
                and
                    (F) the costs of the different types of such 
                personal protective equipment as compared to the costs 
                of engineering and work practice controls related to 
                such equipment; and
            (3) the Secretary, acting through such Assistant Secretary, 
        submits to the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee 
        on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, of the Senate, a 
        report containing the results of the independent study 
        conducted under paragraph (2).
    (b) Notwithstanding the funding limitation under subsection (a), 
from the funds appropriated to the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration for safety and health standards, $800,000 shall be made 
available to conduct the independent study under subsection (a)(2) and 
submit the report under subsection (a)(3), which report shall be 
submitted by not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Labor Appropriations 
Act, 2016''.

                                TITLE II

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                          primary health care

    For carrying out titles II and III of the Public Health Services 
Act (referred to in this Act as the ``PHS Act'') with respect to 
primary health care and the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988, 
$1,630,100,000 (in addition to the $3,600,000,000 previously 
appropriated to the Community Health Center Fund for fiscal year 2016): 
 Provided, That $1,491,522,000 is appropriated from the general fund, 
and $138,478,000, to remain available until expended, is derived from 
available unobligated balances of amounts transferred from the 
Community Health Center Fund in prior fiscal years:  Provided further, 
That no part of the unobligated balances from amounts appropriated in 
42 U.S.C. 254b-2(b)(1) for prior fiscal years shall be available to the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services for obligation in fiscal year 
2016 except as provided for in this Act:  Provided further, That no 
more than $100,000 shall be available until expended for carrying out 
the provisions of section 224(o) of the PHS Act:  Provided further, 
That no more than $99,893,000 shall be available until expended for 
carrying out the provisions of Public Law 104-73 and for expenses 
incurred by the Department of Health and Human Services (referred to in 
this Act as ``HHS'') pertaining to administrative claims made under 
such law:  Provided further, That of funds provided for the Health 
Centers program, as defined by section 330 of the PHS Act, by this Act 
or any other Act for fiscal year 2016, not less than $50,000,000 shall 
be obligated in fiscal year 2016 to support new access points, grants 
to expand medical services, behavioral health, oral health, pharmacy, 
or vision services, and not less than $40,000,000 shall be obligated in 
fiscal year 2016 for construction and capital improvement costs:  
Provided further, That the time limitation in section 330(e)(3) of the 
PHS Act shall not apply in fiscal year 2016.

                            health workforce

    For carrying out titles III, VII, and VIII of the PHS Act with 
respect to the health workforce, section 1128E of the Social Security 
Act, and the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, $720,970,000: 
 Provided, That sections 747(c)(2), 751(j)(2), 762(k), and the 
proportional funding amounts in paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 
756(e) of the PHS Act shall not apply to funds made available under 
this heading:  Provided further, That for any program operating under 
section 751 of the PHS Act on or before January 1, 2009, the Secretary 
may hereafter waive any of the requirements contained in sections 
751(d)(2)(A) and 751(d)(2)(B) of such Act for the full project period 
of a grant under such section:  Provided further, That no funds shall 
be available for section 340G-1 of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That 
fees collected for the disclosure of information under section 427(b) 
of the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 and sections 
1128E(d)(2) and 1921 of the Social Security Act shall be sufficient to 
recover the full costs of operating the programs authorized by such 
sections and shall remain available until expended for the National 
Practitioner Data Bank:  Provided further, That funds transferred to 
this account to carry out section 846 and subpart 3 of part D of title 
III of the PHS Act may be used to make prior year adjustments to awards 
made under such sections:  Provided further, That from amounts made 
available under this heading for the Public Health Training Centers 
Program, 50 percent of such amounts shall be transferred and made 
available for the Preventive Medicine Residency Program.

                       maternal and child health

    For carrying out titles III, XI, XII, and XIX of the PHS Act with 
respect to maternal and child health, title V of the Social Security 
Act, and section 712 of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, 
$828,014,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding sections 502(a)(1) and 
502(b)(1) of the Social Security Act, not more than $50,000,000 shall 
be available for carrying out special projects of regional and national 
significance pursuant to section 501(a)(2) of such Act and $10,276,000 
shall be available for projects described in subparagraphs (A) through 
(F) of section 501(a)(3) of such Act:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 502(c) of the Social Security Act, not less 
than $555,000,000 shall be available for the State Block Grant Awards.

                      ryan white hiv/aids program

    For carrying out title XXVI of the PHS Act with respect to the Ryan 
White HIV/AIDS program, $2,293,781,000, of which $1,970,881,000 shall 
remain available to the Secretary through September 30, 2018, for parts 
A and B of title XXVI of the PHS Act, and of which not less than 
$900,313,000 shall be for State AIDS Drug Assistance Programs under the 
authority of section 2616 or 311(c) of such Act.

                          health care systems

    For carrying out titles III and XII of the PHS Act with respect to 
health care systems, and the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 
2005, $103,193,000, of which $122,000 shall be available until expended 
for facilities renovations at the Gillis W. Long Hansen's Disease 
Center:  Provided, That the Secretary may collect a fee of 0.1 percent 
of each purchase of 340B drugs from entities participating in the Drug 
Pricing Program pursuant to section 340B of the PHS Act to pay for the 
operating costs of such program:  Provided further, That fees pursuant 
to the 340B Drug Pricing Program shall be collected by the Secretary 
based on sales data that shall be submitted by drug manufacturers and 
shall be credited to this account, to remain available until expended.

                              rural health

    For carrying out titles III and IV of the PHS Act with respect to 
rural health, section 427(a) of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety 
Act of 1969, and sections 711 and 1820 of the Social Security Act, 
$150,571,000, of which $41,609,000 from general revenues, 
notwithstanding section 1820(j) of the Social Security Act, shall be 
available for carrying out the Medicare rural hospital flexibility 
grants program:  Provided, That of the funds made available under this 
heading for Medicare rural hospital flexibility grants, $14,942,000 
shall be available for the Small Rural Hospital Improvement Grant 
Program for quality improvement and adoption of health information 
technology and up to $1,000,000 shall be to carry out section 
1820(g)(6) of the Social Security Act, with funds provided for grants 
under section 1820(g)(6) available for the purchase and implementation 
of telehealth services, including pilots and demonstrations on the use 
of electronic health records to coordinate rural veterans care between 
rural providers and the Department of Veterans Affairs electronic 
health record system:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
338J(k) of the PHS Act, $9,511,000 shall be available for State Offices 
of Rural Health.

                            family planning

    For carrying out the program under title X of the PHS Act to 
provide for voluntary family planning projects, $257,832,000:  
Provided, That amounts provided to said projects under such title shall 
not be expended for abortions, that all pregnancy counseling shall be 
nondirective, and that such amounts shall not be expended for any 
activity (including the publication or distribution of literature) that 
in any way tends to promote public support or opposition to any 
legislative proposal or candidate for public office.

                           program management

    For program support in the Health Resources and Services 
Administration, $151,000,000:  Provided, That funds made available 
under this heading may be used to supplement program support funding 
provided under the headings ``Primary Health Care'', ``Health 
Workforce'', ``Maternal and Child Health'', ``Ryan White HIV/AIDS 
Program'', ``Health Care Systems'', and ``Rural Health''.

             vaccine injury compensation program trust fund

    For payments from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust 
Fund (the ``Trust Fund''), such sums as may be necessary for claims 
associated with vaccine-related injury or death with respect to 
vaccines administered after September 30, 1988, pursuant to subtitle 2 
of title XXI of the PHS Act, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That for necessary administrative expenses, not to exceed 
$7,500,000 shall be available from the Trust Fund to the Secretary.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                 immunization and respiratory diseases

    For carrying out titles II, III, XVII, and XXI, and section 2821 of 
the PHS Act, titles II and IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
and section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act, with respect 
to immunization and respiratory diseases, $573,105,000.

     hiv/aids, viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted diseases, and 
                        tuberculosis prevention

    For carrying out titles II, III, XVII, and XXIII of the PHS Act 
with respect to HIV/AIDS, viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted 
diseases, and tuberculosis prevention, $1,090,609,000.

               emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII, and section 2821 of the 
PHS Act, titles II and IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and 
section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act, with respect to 
emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases, $388,590,000.

            chronic disease prevention and health promotion

    For carrying out titles II, III, XI, XV, XVII, and XIX of the PHS 
Act with respect to chronic disease prevention and health promotion, 
$595,272,000:  Provided, That funds appropriated under this account may 
be available for making grants under section 1509 of the PHS Act for 
not less than 21 States, tribes, or tribal organizations:  Provided 
further, That of the funds available under this heading, $8,500,000 
shall be available to continue and expand community specific extension 
and outreach programs to combat obesity in counties with the highest 
levels of obesity:  Provided further, That the proportional funding 
requirements under section 1503(a) of the PHS Act shall not apply to 
funds made available under this Act.

   birth defects, developmental disabilities, disabilities and health

    For carrying out titles II, III, XI, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to birth defects, developmental disabilities, disabilities and 
health, $132,781,000.

                   public health scientific services

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to health statistics, surveillance, health informatics, and 
workforce development, $471,061,000.

                          environmental health

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to environmental health, $132,286,000.

                     injury prevention and control

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to injury prevention and control, $187,947,000:  Provided, That 
of the funds provided under this heading, $37,500,000 shall be 
available for an evidence-based opioid drug overdose prevention 
program.

         national institute for occupational safety and health

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act, sections 
101, 102, 103, 201, 202, 203, 301, and 501 of the Federal Mine Safety 
and Health Act, section 13 of the Mine Improvement and New Emergency 
Response Act, and sections 20, 21, and 22 of the Occupational Safety 
and Health Act, with respect to occupational safety and health, 
$305,887,000.

       energy employees occupational illness compensation program

    For necessary expenses to administer the Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, $55,358,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That this amount shall be 
available consistent with the provision regarding administrative 
expenses in section 151(b) of division B, title I of Public Law 106-
554.

                             global health

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to global health, $411,758,000, of which $128,421,000 for 
international HIV/AIDS shall remain available through September 30, 
2017:  Provided, That funds may be used for purchase and insurance of 
official motor vehicles in foreign countries.

                public health preparedness and response

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to public health preparedness and response, and for expenses 
necessary to support activities related to countering potential 
biological, nuclear, radiological, and chemical threats to civilian 
populations, $1,340,118,000, of which $534,343,000 shall remain 
available until expended for the Strategic National Stockpile:  
Provided, That in the event the Director of the CDC activates the 
Emergency Operations Center, the Director of the CDC may detail staff 
without reimbursement for up to 120 days to support the work of the CDC 
Emergency Operations Center, so long as the Director provides a notice 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate within 15 days of the use of this authority and a full 
report within 30 days after use of this authority which includes the 
number of staff and funding level broken down by the originating center 
and number of days detailed.

                        buildings and facilities

    For acquisition of real property, equipment, construction, 
demolition, and renovation of facilities, $10,000,000, which shall 
remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, That funds 
previously set-aside by CDC for repair and upgrade of the Lake Lynn 
Experimental Mine and Laboratory shall be used to acquire a replacement 
mine safety research facility:  Provided further, That funds made 
available by prior appropriations Acts for CDC for construction and 
renovation of facilities may also be used, in fiscal year 2016, for the 
construction of a replacement freezer building in the Fort Collins, 
Colorado, area.

                cdc-wide activities and program support

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out titles II, III, XVII and XIX, and section 2821 of 
the PHS Act and for cross-cutting activities and program support for 
activities funded in other appropriations included in this Act for the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, $107,892,000:  Provided, 
That paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (b) of section 2821 of 
the PHS Act shall not apply to funds appropriated under this heading 
and in all other accounts of the CDC:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading and in all other accounts of CDC may be 
used to support the hire, maintenance, and operation of aircraft in 
direct support of activities throughout CDC and to ensure the agency is 
prepared to address public health preparedness emergencies:  Provided 
further, That employees of CDC or the Public Health Service, both 
civilian and commissioned officers, detailed to States, municipalities, 
or other organizations under authority of section 214 of the PHS Act, 
or in overseas assignments, shall be treated as non-Federal employees 
for reporting purposes only and shall not be included within any 
personnel ceiling applicable to the Agency, Service, or HHS during the 
period of detail or assignment:  Provided further, That CDC may use up 
to $10,000 from amounts appropriated to CDC in this Act for official 
reception and representation expenses when specifically approved by the 
Director of CDC:  Provided further, That in addition, such sums as may 
be derived from authorized user fees, which shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof:  Provided further, That 
with respect to the previous proviso, authorized user fees from the 
Vessel Sanitation Program and the Respirator Certification Program 
shall be available through September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That 
of the funds made available under this heading and in all other 
accounts of CDC, up to $1,000 per eligible employee of CDC shall be 
made available until expended for Individual Learning Accounts.

                     National Institutes of Health

                       national cancer institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to cancer, $5,204,058,000, of which up to $16,000,000 may be 
used for facilities repairs and improvements at the National Cancer 
Institute--Frederick Federally Funded Research and Development Center 
in Frederick, Maryland.

               national heart, lung, and blood institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to cardiovascular, lung, and blood diseases, and blood and 
blood products, $3,135,519,000.

         national institute of dental and craniofacial research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to dental and craniofacial diseases, $415,169,000.

    national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to diabetes and digestive and kidney disease, $1,825,162,000.

        national institute of neurological disorders and stroke

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to neurological disorders and stroke, $1,694,758,000.

         national institute of allergy and infectious diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to allergy and infectious diseases, $4,710,342,000.

             national institute of general medical sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to general medical sciences, $2,511,431,000, of which 
$940,000,000 shall be from funds available under section 241 of the PHS 
Act:  Provided, That not less than $300,000,000 is provided for the 
Institutional Development Awards program.

  eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human 
                              development

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to child health and human development, $1,345,355,000.

                         national eye institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to eye diseases and visual disorders, $709,549,000.

          national institute of environmental health sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to environmental health sciences, $695,900,000.

                      national institute on aging

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to aging, $1,548,494,000.

 national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases, 
$544,274,000.

    national institute on deafness and other communication disorders

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to deafness and other communication disorders, $424,860,000.

                 national institute of nursing research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to nursing research, $147,508,000.

           national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to alcohol abuse and alcoholism, $469,355,000.

                    national institute on drug abuse

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to drug abuse, $1,069,086,000.

                  national institute of mental health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to mental health, $1,520,260,000.

                national human genome research institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to human genome research, $526,166,000.

      national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to biomedical imaging and bioengineering research, 
$344,299,000.

        national center for complementary and integrative health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to complementary and integrative health, $130,162,000.

      national institute on minority health and health disparities

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to minority health and health disparities research, 
$287,379,000.

                  john e. fogarty international center

    For carrying out the activities of the John E. Fogarty 
International Center (described in subpart 2 of part E of title IV of 
the PHS Act), $70,944,000.

          national center for advancing translational sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to translational sciences, $699,319,000:  Provided, That up to 
$25,835,000 shall be available to implement section 480 of the PHS Act, 
relating to the Cures Acceleration Network:  Provided further, That at 
least $499,746,000 is provided to the Clinical and Translational 
Sciences Awards program.

                      national library of medicine

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to health information communications, $402,251,000:  Provided, 
That of the amounts available for improvement of information systems, 
$4,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2017:  Provided 
further, That in fiscal year 2016, the National Library of Medicine may 
enter into personal services contracts for the provision of services in 
facilities owned, operated, or constructed under the jurisdiction of 
the National Institutes of Health (referred to in this title as 
``NIH'').

                         office of the director

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out the responsibilities of the Office of the 
Director, NIH, $860,937,000, of which up to $30,000,000 may be used to 
carry out section 212 of this Act:  Provided, That funding shall be 
available for the purchase of not to exceed 29 passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement only:  Provided further, That all funds credited to the 
NIH Management Fund shall remain available for one fiscal year after 
the fiscal year in which they are deposited:  Provided further, That 
$165,000,000 shall be for longitudinal studies related to environmental 
influences on child health and development as a follow-on to the 
National Children's Study, and may be transferred to and merged with 
the accounts for the various Institutes and Centers to support 
activities related to this goal:  Provided further, That NIH shall 
submit a spend plan and research strategy to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate not later 
than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act:  Provided 
further, That $544,077,000 shall be available for the Common Fund 
established under section 402A(c)(1) of the PHS Act:  Provided further, 
That of the funds provided, $10,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses when specifically approved by the Director of 
the NIH:  Provided further, That the Office of AIDS Research within the 
Office of the Director of the NIH may spend up to $8,000,000 to make 
grants for construction or renovation of facilities as provided for in 
section 2354(a)(5)(B) of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That 
$50,000,000 shall be used to carry out section 404I of the PHS Act (42 
U.S.C. 283k), relating to biomedical and behavioral research 
facilities: Of the amount provided to the NIH, the Director of NIH 
shall enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences, as 
part of the studies conducted under section 489 of the PHSA, to conduct 
a comprehensive study on policies affecting the next generation of 
researchers in the United States:  Provided further, That the Director 
may direct up to 1 percent of the total made available in this or any 
other Act to all NIH appropriations to activities that the Director may 
so designate:  Provided further, That no such appropriation shall be 
decreased by more than 1 percent by any such transfers and that the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    In addition to other funds appropriated for the Common Fund 
established under section 402A(c) of the PHS Act, $12,600,000 is 
appropriated to the Common Fund from the 10-year Pediatric Research 
Initiative Fund described in section 9008 of title 26, United States 
Code, for the purpose of carrying out section 402(b)(7)(B)(ii) of the 
PHS Act (relating to pediatric research), as authorized in the 
Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act.

                        buildings and facilities

    For the study of, construction or demolition of, renovation of, and 
acquisition of equipment for, facilities of or used by NIH, including 
the acquisition of real property, $128,863,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2020.

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

                             mental health

    For carrying out titles III, V, and XIX of the PHS Act with respect 
to mental health, and the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with 
Mental Illness Act, $1,021,301,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 520A(f)(2) of the PHS Act, no funds appropriated for carrying 
out section 520A shall be available for carrying out section 1971 of 
the PHS Act:  Provided further, That in addition to amounts provided 
herein, $21,039,000 shall be available under section 241 of the PHS Act 
to carry out subpart I of part B of title XIX of the PHS Act to fund 
section 1920(b) technical assistance, national data, data collection 
and evaluation activities, and further that the total available under 
this Act for section 1920(b) activities shall not exceed 5 percent of 
the amounts appropriated for subpart I of part B of title XIX:  
Provided further, That section 520E(b)(2) of the PHS Act shall not 
apply to funds appropriated in this Act for fiscal year 2016:  Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
$45,887,000 shall be for the National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative 
as described in section 582 of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 565(b)(1) of the PHS Act, technical assistance 
may be provided to a public entity to establish or operate a system of 
comprehensive community mental health services to children with a 
serious emotional disturbance, without regard to whether the public 
entity receives a grant under section 561(a) of such Act:  Provided 
further, That States shall expend at least 5 percent of the amount each 
receives for carrying out section 1911 of the PHS Act to support 
evidence-based programs that address the needs of individuals with 
early serious mental illness, including psychotic disorders, regardless 
of the age of the individual at onset:  Provided further, That none of 
the funds provided for section 1911 of the PHS Act shall be subject to 
section 241 of such Act.

                        substance abuse treatment

    For carrying out titles III, V, and XIX of the PHS Act with respect 
to substance abuse treatment and section 1922(a) of the PHS Act with 
respect to substance abuse prevention, $1,972,916,000:  Provided, That 
in addition to amounts provided herein, the following amounts shall be 
available under section 241 of the PHS Act: (1) $79,200,000 to carry 
out subpart II of part B of title XIX of the PHS Act to fund section 
1935(b) technical assistance, national data, data collection and 
evaluation activities, and further that the total available under this 
Act for section 1935(b) activities shall not exceed 5 percent of the 
amounts appropriated for subpart II of part B of title XIX; and (2) 
$2,000,000 to evaluate substance abuse treatment programs:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided for section 1921 of the PHS 
Act shall be subject to section 241 of such Act.

                       substance abuse prevention

    For carrying out titles III and V of the PHS Act with respect to 
substance abuse prevention, $182,731,000.

                health surveillance and program support

    For program support and cross-cutting activities that supplement 
activities funded under the headings ``Mental Health'', ``Substance 
Abuse Treatment'', and ``Substance Abuse Prevention'' in carrying out 
titles III, V, and XIX of the PHS Act and the Protection and Advocacy 
for Individuals with Mental Illness Act in the Substance Abuse and 
Mental Health Services Administration, $137,869,000:  Provided, That in 
addition to amounts provided herein, $31,428,000 shall be available 
under section 241 of the PHS Act to supplement funds available to carry 
out national surveys on drug abuse and mental health, to collect and 
analyze program data, and to conduct public awareness and technical 
assistance activities:  Provided further, That, in addition, fees may 
be collected for the costs of publications, data, data tabulations, and 
data analysis completed under title V of the PHS Act and provided to a 
public or private entity upon request, which shall be credited to this 
appropriation and shall remain available until expended for such 
purposes:  Provided further, That amounts made available in this Act 
for carrying out section 501(m) of the PHS Act shall remain available 
through September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading may be used to supplement program support 
funding provided under the headings ``Mental Health'', ``Substance 
Abuse Treatment'', and ``Substance Abuse Prevention''.

               Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality

                    healthcare research and quality

    For carrying out titles III and IX of the PHS Act, part A of title 
XI of the Social Security Act, and section 1013 of the Medicare 
Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, 
$236,001,000:  Provided, That section 947(c) of the PHS Act shall not 
apply in fiscal year 2016:  Provided further, That in addition, amounts 
received from Freedom of Information Act fees, reimbursable and 
interagency agreements, and the sale of data shall be credited to this 
appropriation and shall remain available until September 30, 2017.

               Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services

                     grants to states for medicaid

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI and XIX 
of the Social Security Act, $243,545,410,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    For making, after May 31, 2016, payments to States under title XIX 
or in the case of section 1928 on behalf of States under title XIX of 
the Social Security Act for the last quarter of fiscal year 2016 for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making payments to States or in the case of section 1928 on 
behalf of States under title XIX of the Social Security Act for the 
first quarter of fiscal year 2017, $115,582,502,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    Payment under such title XIX may be made for any quarter with 
respect to a State plan or plan amendment in effect during such 
quarter, if submitted in or prior to such quarter and approved in that 
or any subsequent quarter.

                  payments to health care trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, as provided under 
sections 217(g), 1844, and 1860D-16 of the Social Security Act, 
sections 103(c) and 111(d) of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, 
section 278(d)(3) of Public Law 97-248, and for administrative expenses 
incurred pursuant to section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, 
$283,171,800,000.
    In addition, for making matching payments under section 1844 and 
benefit payments under section 1860D-16 of the Social Security Act that 
were not anticipated in budget estimates, such sums as may be 
necessary.

                           program management

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI, XVIII, 
XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act, titles XIII and XXVII of the 
PHS Act, the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, and 
other responsibilities of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services, not to exceed $3,027,590,000, to be transferred from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund, as authorized by section 201(g) of the 
Social Security Act; together with all funds collected in accordance 
with section 353 of the PHS Act and section 1857(e)(2) of the Social 
Security Act, funds retained by the Secretary pursuant to section 302 
of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006; and such sums as may be 
collected from authorized user fees and the sale of data, which shall 
be credited to this account and remain available until September 30, 
2021:  Provided, That all funds derived in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 
9701 from organizations established under title XIII of the PHS Act 
shall be credited to and available for carrying out the purposes of 
this appropriation:  Provided further, That the Secretary is directed 
to collect fees in fiscal year 2016 from Medicare Advantage 
organizations pursuant to section 1857(e)(2) of the Social Security Act 
and from eligible organizations with risk-sharing contracts under 
section 1876 of that Act pursuant to section 1876(k)(4)(D) of that Act.

              health care fraud and abuse control account

    In addition to amounts otherwise available for program integrity 
and program management, $706,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2017, to be transferred from the Federal Hospital 
Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance 
Trust Fund, as authorized by section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, 
of which $474,175,000 shall be for the Medicare Integrity Program at 
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, including 
administrative costs, to conduct oversight activities for Medicare 
Advantage under Part C and the Medicare Prescription Drug Program under 
Part D of the Social Security Act and for activities described in 
section 1893(b) of such Act, of which $77,275,000 shall be for the 
Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General to 
carry out fraud and abuse activities authorized by section 1817(k)(3) 
of such Act, of which $77,275,000 shall be for the Medicaid and 
Children's Health Insurance Program (``CHIP'') program integrity 
activities, and of which $77,275,000 shall be for the Department of 
Justice to carry out fraud and abuse activities authorized by section 
1817(k)(3) of such Act:  Provided, That the report required by section 
1817(k)(5) of the Social Security Act for fiscal year 2016 shall 
include measures of the operational efficiency and impact on fraud, 
waste, and abuse in the Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP programs for the 
funds provided by this appropriation:  Provided further, That of the 
amount provided under this heading, $311,000,000 is provided to meet 
the terms of section 251(b)(2)(C)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $395,000,000 is 
additional new budget authority specified for purposes of section 
251(b)(2)(C) of such Act.

                Administration for Children and Families

  payments to states for child support enforcement and family support 
                                programs

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles I, IV-D, X, 
XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 
1960, $2,944,906,000, to remain available until expended; and for such 
purposes for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, $1,300,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.
    For carrying out, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, except 
as otherwise provided, titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the 
Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 1960, for the last 3 months 
of the current fiscal year for unanticipated costs, incurred for the 
current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.

                   low income home energy assistance

    For making payments under subsections (b) and (d) of section 2602 
of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981, $3,390,304,000:  
Provided, That all but $491,000,000 of this amount shall be allocated 
as though the total appropriation for such payments for fiscal year 
2016 was less than $1,975,000,000:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 2609A(a), of the amounts appropriated under 
section 2602(b), not more than $2,988,000 of such amounts may be 
reserved by the Secretary for technical assistance, training, and 
monitoring of program activities for compliance with internal controls, 
policies and procedures and may, in addition to the authorities 
provided in section 2609A(a)(1), use such funds through contracts with 
private entities that do not qualify as nonprofit organizations.

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    For necessary expenses for refugee and entrant assistance 
activities authorized by section 414 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act and section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, 
and for carrying out section 462 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, 
section 235 of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2008, the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
2000 (``TVPA''), section 203 of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2005, and the Torture Victims Relief Act of 
1998, $1,405,367,000, of which $1,378,877,000 shall remain available 
through September 30, 2018 for carrying out such sections 414, 501, 
462, and 235:  Provided, That amounts available under this heading to 
carry out such section 203 and the TVPA shall also be available for 
research and evaluation with respect to activities under those 
authorities:  Provided further, That the limitation in section 205 of 
this Act regarding transfers increasing any appropriation shall apply 
to transfers to appropriations under this heading by substituting ``10 
percent'' for ``3 percent''.

   payments to states for the child care and development block grant

    For carrying out the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 
2014 (``CCDBG Act''), $2,585,000,000 shall be used to supplement, not 
supplant State general revenue funds for child care assistance for low-
income families:  Provided, That, in addition to the amounts required 
to be reserved by the States under section 658G of the CCDBG Act, 
$119,098,000 shall be for activities that improve the quality of infant 
and toddler care:  Provided further, That technical assistance under 
section 658I(a)(3) of such Act may be provided directly, or through the 
use of contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or interagency 
agreements:  Provided further, That the reservation of funds specified 
in paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 658O(a) of such Act shall also be 
applied to funds appropriated in this or any other Act, including 
section 418 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 618), to carry out 
such section 418.

                      social services block grant

    For making grants to States pursuant to section 2002 of the Social 
Security Act, $1,700,000,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
subparagraph (B) of section 404(d)(2) of such Act, the applicable 
percent specified under such subparagraph for a State to carry out 
State programs pursuant to title XX-A of such Act shall be 10 percent.

                children and families services programs

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act, the Head Start Act, the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act, sections 303 and 313 of the Family Violence Prevention 
and Services Act, the Native American Programs Act of 1974, title II of 
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment and Adoption Reform Act of 
1978 (adoption opportunities), part B-1 of title IV and sections 413, 
429, 473A, 477(i), 1110, 1114A, and 1115 of the Social Security Act; 
for making payments under the Community Services Block Grant Act 
(``CSBG Act''), sections 473B and 477(i) of the Social Security Act, 
and the Assets for Independence Act; for necessary administrative 
expenses to carry out titles I, IV, V, X, XI, XIV, XVI, and XX of the 
Social Security Act, the Act of July 5, 1960, the Low Income Home 
Energy Assistance Act of 1981, title IV of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act, and section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance 
Act of 1980; and for the administration of prior year obligations made 
by the Administration for Children and Families under the Developmental 
Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act and the Help America 
Vote Act of 2002, $10,388,620,000, of which $37,943,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2017, shall be for grants to States for 
adoption and legal guardianship incentive payments, as defined by 
section 473A of the Social Security Act and may be made for adoptions 
completed before September 30, 2015:  Provided, That $8,698,095,000 
shall be for making payments under the Head Start Act:  Provided 
further, That of the amount in the previous proviso, $8,073,095,000 
shall be available for payments under section 640 of the Head Start 
Act:  Provided further, That of the amount provided for making payments 
under the Head Start Act, $25,000,000 shall be available for allocation 
by the Secretary to supplement activities described in paragraphs 
(7)(B) and (9) of section 641(c) of such Act under the Designation 
Renewal System, established under the authority of sections 641(c)(7), 
645A(b)(12) and 645A(d) of such Act:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding such section 640, of the amount provided for making 
payments under the Head Start Act, and in addition to funds otherwise 
available under such section 640 for such purposes, $600,000,000 shall 
be available for Early Head Start programs as described in section 645A 
of such Act, for conversion of Head Start services to Early Head Start 
services as described in section 645(a)(5)(A) of such Act, for 
discretionary grants for high quality infant and toddler care through 
Early Head Start-Child Care Partnerships, to entities defined as 
eligible under section 645A(d) of such Act, for training and technical 
assistance for such activities, and for up to $14,000,000 in Federal 
costs of administration and evaluation, and, notwithstanding section 
645A(c)(2) of such Act, these funds are available to serve children 
under age 4:  Provided further, That funds described in the preceding 
two provisos shall not be included in the calculation of ``base grant'' 
in subsequent fiscal years, as such term is used in section 
640(a)(7)(A) of such Act:  Provided further, That $674,000,000 shall be 
for making payments under the CSBG Act:  Provided further, That not 
more than $350,000 shall be reserved under section 674(b)(3) of the 
CSBG Act, all of which shall be solely for carrying out section 
678(b)(2) of such Act:  Provided further, That section 303(a)(2)(A)(i) 
of the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act shall not apply to 
amounts provided herein:  Provided further, That $1,864,000 shall be 
for a human services case management system for federally declared 
disasters, to include a comprehensive national case management contract 
and Federal costs of administering the system:  Provided further, That 
up to $2,000,000 shall be for improving the Public Assistance Reporting 
Information System, including grants to States to support data 
collection for a study of the system's effectiveness.

                   promoting safe and stable families

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, section 436 of the 
Social Security Act, $345,000,000 and, for carrying out, except as 
otherwise provided, section 437 of such Act, $59,765,000.

                payments for foster care and permanency

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, title IV-E of the 
Social Security Act, $5,298,000,000.
    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, title IV-E of the 
Social Security Act, for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, 
$2,300,000,000.
    For carrying out, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, except 
as otherwise provided, section 474 of title IV-E of the Social Security 
Act, for the last 3 months of the current fiscal year for unanticipated 
costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as may be 
necessary.

                  Administration for Community Living

                 aging and disability services programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the OAA, 
titles III and XXIX of the PHS Act, section 119 of the Medicare 
Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, title XX-B of the 
Social Security Act, the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill 
of Rights Act, parts 2 and 5 of subtitle D of title II of the Help 
America Vote Act of 2002, the Assistive Technology Act of 1998, titles 
II and VII (and section 14 with respect to such titles) of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and for Department-wide coordination of 
policy and program activities that assist individuals with 
disabilities, $1,831,089,000, together with $30,000,000 to be 
transferred from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund to carry out section 
4360 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990:  Provided, That 
amounts appropriated under this heading may be used for grants to 
States under section 361 of the OAA only for disease prevention and 
health promotion programs and activities which have been demonstrated 
through rigorous evaluation to be evidence-based and effective:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
funds made available under this heading to carry out section 311 of the 
OAA may be transferred to the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance 
with such section.

                        Office of the Secretary

                    general departmental management

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for general 
departmental management, including hire of six passenger motor 
vehicles, and for carrying out titles III, XVII, XXI, and section 229 
of the PHS Act, the United States-Mexico Border Health Commission Act, 
and research studies under section 1110 of the Social Security Act, 
$301,500,000, together with $46,762,000 from the amounts available 
under section 241 of the PHS Act to carry out national health or human 
services research and evaluation activities:  Provided, That of the 
funds made available under this heading, $20,000,000 shall be for 
making competitive contracts and grants to public and private entities 
to fund medically accurate and age appropriate programs that reduce 
teen pregnancy and for the Federal costs associated with administering 
and evaluating such contracts and grants, of which not more than 10 
percent of the available funds shall be for training and technical 
assistance, evaluation, outreach, and additional program support 
activities, and of the remaining amount 75 percent shall be for 
replicating programs that have been proven effective through rigorous 
evaluation to reduce teenage pregnancy, behavioral risk factors 
underlying teenage pregnancy, or other associated risk factors, and 25 
percent shall be available for research and demonstration grants to 
develop, replicate, refine, and test additional models and innovative 
strategies for preventing teenage pregnancy:  Provided further, That of 
the funds made available under this heading, $1,750,000 is for 
strengthening the Department's acquisition workforce capacity and 
capabilities:  Provided further, That with respect to the previous 
proviso, such funds shall be available for training, recruiting, 
retaining, and hiring members of the acquisition workforce as defined 
by 41 U.S.C. 1703, for information technology in support of acquisition 
workforce effectiveness and for management solutions to improve 
acquisition management:  Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under this heading, $20,000,000 shall be for making 
competitive grants to provide abstinence education (as defined by 
section 510(b)(2)(A)-(H) of the Social Security Act) to adolescents, 
and for Federal costs of administering the grant:  Provided further, 
That grants made under the authority of section 510(b)(2)(A)-(H) of the 
Social Security Act shall be made only to public and private entities 
that agree that, with respect to an adolescent to whom the entities 
provide abstinence education under such grant, the entities will not 
provide to that adolescent any other education regarding sexual 
conduct, except that, in the case of an entity expressly required by 
law to provide health information or services the adolescent shall not 
be precluded from seeking health information or services from the 
entity in a different setting than the setting in which abstinence 
education was provided:  Provided further, That funds provided in this 
Act for embryo adoption activities may be used to provide to 
individuals adopting embryos, through grants and other mechanisms, 
medical and administrative services deemed necessary for such 
adoptions:  Provided further, That such services shall be provided 
consistent with 42 CFR 59.5(a)(4).

                office of medicare hearings and appeals

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Medicare Hearings and 
Appeals, $97,381,000, to be transferred in appropriate part from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

  office of the national coordinator for health information technology

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the National Coordinator 
for Health Information Technology, including grants, contracts, and 
cooperative agreements for the development and advancement of 
interoperable health information technology, $60,367,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, 
including the hire of passenger motor vehicles for investigations, in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$71,000,000:  Provided, That of such amount, necessary sums shall be 
available for providing protective services to the Secretary and 
investigating non-payment of child support cases for which non-payment 
is a Federal offense under 18 U.S.C. 228.

                        office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, 
$38,798,000.

     retirement pay and medical benefits for commissioned officers

    For retirement pay and medical benefits of Public Health Service 
Commissioned Officers as authorized by law, for payments under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan and Survivor Benefit Plan, 
and for medical care of dependents and retired personnel under the 
Dependents' Medical Care Act, such amounts as may be required during 
the current fiscal year.

            public health and social services emergency fund

    For expenses necessary to support activities related to countering 
potential biological, nuclear, radiological, chemical, and 
cybersecurity threats to civilian populations, and for other public 
health emergencies, $900,362,000, of which $473,000,000 shall remain 
available through September 30, 2017, for expenses necessary to support 
advanced research and development pursuant to section 319L of the PHS 
Act and other administrative expenses of the Biomedical Advanced 
Research and Development Authority:  Provided, That funds provided 
under this heading for the purpose of acquisition of security 
countermeasures shall be in addition to any other funds available for 
such purpose:  Provided further, That products purchased with funds 
provided under this heading may, at the discretion of the Secretary, be 
deposited in the Strategic National Stockpile pursuant to section 319F-
2 of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That $5,000,000 of the amounts 
made available to support emergency operations shall remain available 
through September 30, 2018.
    For expenses necessary for procuring security countermeasures (as 
defined in section 319F-2(c)(1)(B) of the PHS Act), $255,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.
    For an additional amount for expenses necessary to prepare for or 
respond to an influenza pandemic, $71,915,000; of which $39,906,000 
shall be available until expended, for activities including the 
development and purchase of vaccine, antivirals, necessary medical 
supplies, diagnostics, and other surveillance tools:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 496(b) of the PHS Act, funds may be used for 
the construction or renovation of privately owned facilities for the 
production of pandemic influenza vaccines and other biologics, if the 
Secretary finds such construction or renovation necessary to secure 
sufficient supplies of such vaccines or biologics.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 201.  Funds appropriated in this title shall be available for 
not to exceed $50,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses when specifically approved by the Secretary.
    Sec. 202.  None of the funds appropriated in this title shall be 
used to pay the salary of an individual, through a grant or other 
extramural mechanism, at a rate in excess of Executive Level II.
    Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended pursuant to section 241 of the PHS Act, except for funds 
specifically provided for in this Act, or for other taps and 
assessments made by any office located in HHS, prior to the preparation 
and submission of a report by the Secretary to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing 
the planned uses of such funds.
    Sec. 204.  Notwithstanding section 241(a) of the PHS Act, such 
portion as the Secretary shall determine, but not more than 2.5 
percent, of any amounts appropriated for programs authorized under such 
Act shall be made available for the evaluation (directly, or by grants 
or contracts) and the implementation and effectiveness of programs 
funded in this title.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for HHS in 
this Act may be transferred between appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any such 
transfer:  Provided, That the transfer authority granted by this 
section shall not be used to create any new program or to fund any 
project or activity for which no funds are provided in this Act:  
Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance 
of any transfer.
    Sec. 206.  In lieu of the timeframe specified in section 338E(c)(2) 
of the PHS Act, terminations described in such section may occur up to 
60 days after the execution of a contract awarded in fiscal year 2016 
under section 338B of such Act.
    Sec. 207.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be made 
available to any entity under title X of the PHS Act unless the 
applicant for the award certifies to the Secretary that it encourages 
family participation in the decision of minors to seek family planning 
services and that it provides counseling to minors on how to resist 
attempts to coerce minors into engaging in sexual activities.
    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no provider 
of services under title X of the PHS Act shall be exempt from any State 
law requiring notification or the reporting of child abuse, child 
molestation, sexual abuse, rape, or incest.
    Sec. 209.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act (including 
funds appropriated to any trust fund) may be used to carry out the 
Medicare Advantage program if the Secretary denies participation in 
such program to an otherwise eligible entity (including a Provider 
Sponsored Organization) because the entity informs the Secretary that 
it will not provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or provide referrals 
for abortions:  Provided, That the Secretary shall make appropriate 
prospective adjustments to the capitation payment to such an entity 
(based on an actuarially sound estimate of the expected costs of 
providing the service to such entity's enrollees):  Provided further, 
That nothing in this section shall be construed to change the Medicare 
program's coverage for such services and a Medicare Advantage 
organization described in this section shall be responsible for 
informing enrollees where to obtain information about all Medicare 
covered services.
    Sec. 210.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used, in whole or in part, to advocate or promote gun control.
    Sec. 211.  The Secretary shall make available through assignment 
not more than 60 employees of the Public Health Service to assist in 
child survival activities and to work in AIDS programs through and with 
funds provided by the Agency for International Development, the United 
Nations International Children's Emergency Fund or the World Health 
Organization.
    Sec. 212.  In order for HHS to carry out international health 
activities, including HIV/AIDS and other infectious disease, chronic 
and environmental disease, and other health activities abroad during 
fiscal year 2016:
            (1) The Secretary may exercise authority equivalent to that 
        available to the Secretary of State in section 2(c) of the 
        State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956. The Secretary 
        shall consult with the Secretary of State and relevant Chief of 
        Mission to ensure that the authority provided in this section 
        is exercised in a manner consistent with section 207 of the 
        Foreign Service Act of 1980 and other applicable statutes 
        administered by the Department of State.
            (2) The Secretary is authorized to provide such funds by 
        advance or reimbursement to the Secretary of State as may be 
        necessary to pay the costs of acquisition, lease, alteration, 
        renovation, and management of facilities outside of the United 
        States for the use of HHS. The Department of State shall 
        cooperate fully with the Secretary to ensure that HHS has 
        secure, safe, functional facilities that comply with applicable 
        regulation governing location, setback, and other facilities 
        requirements and serve the purposes established by this Act. 
        The Secretary is authorized, in consultation with the Secretary 
        of State, through grant or cooperative agreement, to make 
        available to public or nonprofit private institutions or 
        agencies in participating foreign countries, funds to acquire, 
        lease, alter, or renovate facilities in those countries as 
        necessary to conduct programs of assistance for international 
        health activities, including activities relating to HIV/AIDS 
        and other infectious diseases, chronic and environmental 
        diseases, and other health activities abroad.
            (3) The Secretary is authorized to provide to personnel 
        appointed or assigned by the Secretary to serve abroad, 
        allowances and benefits similar to those provided under chapter 
        9 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, and 22 U.S.C. 
        4081 through 4086 and subject to such regulations prescribed by 
        the Secretary. The Secretary is further authorized to provide 
        locality-based comparability payments (stated as a percentage) 
        up to the amount of the locality-based comparability payment 
        (stated as a percentage) that would be payable to such 
        personnel under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code if 
        such personnel's official duty station were in the District of 
        Columbia. Leaves of absence for personnel under this subsection 
        shall be on the same basis as that provided under subchapter I 
        of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, or section 903 of 
        the Foreign Service Act of 1980, to individuals serving in the 
        Foreign Service.
    Sec. 213.  Funds which are available for Individual Learning 
Accounts for employees of CDC and the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry (``ATSDR'') may be transferred to appropriate accounts 
of CDC, to be available only for Individual Learning Accounts:  
Provided, That such funds may be used for any individual full-time 
equivalent employee while such employee is employed either by CDC or 
ATSDR.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 214.  The Director of the NIH, jointly with the Director of 
the Office of AIDS Research, may transfer up to 3 percent among 
institutes and centers from the total amounts identified by these two 
Directors as funding for research pertaining to the human 
immunodeficiency virus:  Provided, That the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are 
notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 215.  Of the amounts made available in this Act for NIH, the 
amount for research related to the human immunodeficiency virus, as 
jointly determined by the Director of NIH and the Director of the 
Office of AIDS Research, shall be made available to the ``Office of 
AIDS Research'' account. The Director of the Office of AIDS Research 
shall transfer from such account amounts necessary to carry out section 
2353(d)(3) of the PHS Act.
    Sec. 216. (a) Authority.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Director of NIH (``Director'') may use funds available under 
section 402(b)(7) or 402(b)(12) of the PHS Act to enter into 
transactions (other than contracts, cooperative agreements, or grants) 
to carry out research identified pursuant to such section 402(b)(7) 
(pertaining to the Common Fund) or research and activities described in 
such section 402(b)(12).
    (b) Peer Review.--In entering into transactions under subsection 
(a), the Director may utilize such peer review procedures (including 
consultation with appropriate scientific experts) as the Director 
determines to be appropriate to obtain assessments of scientific and 
technical merit. Such procedures shall apply to such transactions in 
lieu of the peer review and advisory council review procedures that 
would otherwise be required under sections 301(a)(3), 405(b)(1)(B), 
405(b)(2), 406(a)(3)(A), 492, and 494 of the PHS Act.
    Sec. 217.  Not to exceed $45,000,000 of funds appropriated by this 
Act to the institutes and centers of the National Institutes of Health 
may be used for alteration, repair, or improvement of facilities, as 
necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of the activities 
authorized herein, at not to exceed $3,500,000 per project.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 218.  Of the amounts made available for NIH, 1 percent of the 
amount made available for National Research Service Awards (``NRSA'') 
shall be made available to the Administrator of the Health Resources 
and Services Administration to make NRSA awards for research in primary 
medical care to individuals affiliated with entities who have received 
grants or contracts under sections 736, 739, or 747 of the PHS Act, and 
1 percent of the amount made available for NRSA shall be made available 
to the Director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to 
make NRSA awards for health service research.
    Sec. 219.  Section 461(b)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 285k(b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and behavioral 
        research'' and all that follows through the period and 
        inserting ``or behavioral research and are located in a State 
        that is at or below the median of all States with respect to 
        the aggregate NIH funding received by entities in that 
        State.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) Entities that are designated as Primarily 
                Undergraduate Institutions and that are not eligible 
                for funding under the Individuals with Disabilities 
                Education Act, but that have been eligible for 
                participation in the National Science Foundation 
                Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research 
                (EPSCoR) program for the past 2 consecutive years, may 
                apply to an entity that currently holds an IDeA 
                Networks of Biomedical Research Excellence award for 
                inclusion in their Network.''.
    Sec. 220.  Public Law 110-161, division G, title II, section 223 is 
amended by inserting, after ``shall be available'' and before ``until 
expended'', ``to the Office of the Director, National Institutes of 
Health''; striking, after ``may be available for'' and before ``, 
subject to approval'', ``such purposes, for capital acquisition 
necessary to the operation of the Department, including facilities 
infrastructure and information technology infrastructure'', and 
inserting ``all necessary expenses related to carrying out section 301 
and title IV of the Public Health Service Act''.
    Sec. 221.  In addition to amounts provided herein, payments made 
for research organisms or substances, authorized under section 301(a) 
of the PHS Act, shall be retained and credited to the appropriations 
accounts of the Institutes and Centers of the NIH making the substance 
or organism available under section 301(a). Amounts credited to the 
account under this authority shall be available for obligation through 
September 30, 2017.
    Sec. 222. (a) The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development 
Authority (``BARDA'') may enter into a contract, for more than one but 
no more than 10 program years, for purchase of research services or of 
security countermeasures, as that term is defined in section 319F-
2(c)(1)(B) of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-6b(c)(1)(B)), if--
            (1) funds are available and obligated--
                    (A) for the full period of the contract or for the 
                first fiscal year in which the contract is in effect; 
                and
                    (B) for the estimated costs associated with a 
                necessary termination of the contract; and
            (2) the Secretary determines that a multi-year contract 
        will serve the best interests of the Federal Government by 
        encouraging full and open competition or promoting economy in 
        administration, performance, and operation of BARDA's programs.
    (b) A contract entered into under this section--
            (1) shall include a termination clause as described by 
        subsection (c) of section 3903 of title 41, United States Code; 
        and
            (2) shall be subject to the congressional notice 
        requirement stated in subsection (d) of such section.
    Sec. 223. (a) The Secretary shall establish a publicly accessible 
Web site to provide information regarding the uses of funds made 
available under section 4002 of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act of 2010 (``ACA'').
    (b) With respect to funds provided under section 4002 of the ACA, 
the Secretary shall include on the Web site established under 
subsection (a) at a minimum the following information:
            (1) In the case of each transfer of funds under section 
        4002(c), a statement indicating the program or activity 
        receiving funds, the operating division or office that will 
        administer the funds, and the planned uses of the funds, to be 
        posted not later than the day after the transfer is made.
            (2) Identification (along with a link to the full text) of 
        each funding opportunity announcement, request for proposals, 
        or other announcement or solicitation of proposals for grants, 
        cooperative agreements, or contracts intended to be awarded 
        using such funds, to be posted not later than the day after the 
        announcement or solicitation is issued.
            (3) Identification of each grant, cooperative agreement, or 
        contract with a value of $25,000 or more awarded using such 
        funds, including the purpose of the award and the identity of 
        the recipient, to be posted not later than 5 days after the 
        award is made.
            (4) A report detailing the uses of all funds transferred 
        under section 4002(c) during the fiscal year, to be posted not 
        later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) With respect to awards made in fiscal years 2013 through 2016, 
the Secretary shall also include on the Web site established under 
subsection (a), semi-annual reports from each entity awarded a grant, 
cooperative agreement, or contract from such funds with a value of 
$25,000 or more, summarizing the activities undertaken and identifying 
any sub-grants or sub-contracts awarded (including the purpose of the 
award and the identity of the recipient), to be posted not later than 
30 days after the end of each 6-month period.
    (d) In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall--
            (1) present the information required in subsection (b)(1) 
        on a single webpage or on a single database;
            (2) ensure that all information required in this section is 
        directly accessible from the single webpage or database; and
            (3) ensure that all information required in this section is 
        able to be organized by program or State.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 224. (a) Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall transfer funds appropriated under section 4002 of the 
ACA to the accounts specified, in the amounts specified, and for the 
activities specified under the heading ``Prevention and Public Health 
Fund'' in the report accompanying this Act.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 4002(c) of the ACA, the Secretary may 
not further transfer these amounts.
    (c) Funds transferred for activities authorized under section 2821 
of the PHS Act shall be made available without reference to section 
2821(b) of such Act.
    Sec. 225. (a) The Secretary shall publish in the fiscal year 2017 
budget justification and on Departmental Web sites information 
concerning the employment of full-time equivalent Federal employees or 
contractors for the purposes of implementing, administering, enforcing, 
or otherwise carrying out the provisions of the ACA, and the amendments 
made by that Act, in the proposed fiscal year and each fiscal year 
since the enactment of the ACA.
    (b) With respect to employees or contractors supported by all funds 
appropriated for purposes of carrying out the ACA (and the amendments 
made by that Act), the Secretary shall include, at a minimum, the 
following information:
            (1) For each such fiscal year, the section of such Act 
        under which such funds were appropriated, a statement 
        indicating the program, project, or activity receiving such 
        funds, the Federal operating division or office that 
        administers such program, and the amount of funding received in 
        discretionary or mandatory appropriations.
            (2) For each such fiscal year, the number of full-time 
        equivalent employees or contracted employees assigned to each 
        authorized and funded provision detailed in accordance with 
        paragraph (1).
    (c) In carrying out this section, the Secretary may exclude from 
the report employees or contractors who--
            (1) are supported through appropriations enacted in laws 
        other than the ACA and work on programs that existed prior to 
        the passage of the ACA;
            (2) spend less than 50 percent of their time on activities 
        funded by or newly authorized in the ACA; or
            (3) work on contracts for which FTE reporting is not a 
        requirement of their contract, such as fixed-price contracts.
    Sec. 226.  The Secretary shall publish, as part of the fiscal year 
2017 budget of the President submitted under section 1105(a) of title 
31, United States Code, information that details the uses of all funds 
used by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services specifically for 
Health Insurance Exchanges for each fiscal year since the enactment of 
the ACA and the proposed uses for such funds for fiscal year 2017. Such 
information shall include, for each such fiscal year, the amount of 
funds used for each activity specified under the heading ``Health 
Insurance Exchange Transparency'' in the report accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 227.  The Secretary shall provide to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailed, 
monthly enrollment figures from the Exchanges established under the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 pertaining to 
enrollments during the open enrollment period:  Provided, That the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate must be notified and provided with the enrollment figures at 
least 2 business days in advance of any public release of the 
information.
    Sec. 228.  None of the funds made available by this Act from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or the Federal Supplemental 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund, or transferred from other accounts funded 
by this Act to the ``Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services--
Program Management'' account, may be used for payments under section 
1342(b)(1) of Public Law 111-148 (relating to risk corridors).
    Sec. 229.  None of the funds made available by this Act from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or the Federal Supplemental 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund, or transferred from other accounts funded 
by this Act to the ``Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services--
Program Management'' account, may be used to support the operation of 
an Exchange established under section 1311 of Public Law 111-148.
    Sec. 230.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used 
to issue, promulgate, or otherwise implement the 2015 Dietary 
Guidelines for Americans edition unless the information and guidelines 
in the report are solely nutritional and dietary in nature; and based 
only on a preponderance of nutritional and dietary scientific evidence 
and not extraneous information.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 231.  The following unobligated balances of amounts 
appropriated prior to fiscal year 2007 for ``Department of Health and 
Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration'' are 
hereby rescinded:
            (1) $281,003 appropriated to carry out section 1610(b) of 
        the PHS Act;
            (2) $3,611 appropriated to carry out section 1602(c) of the 
        PHS Act;
            (3) $105,576 appropriated in section 167 of division H of 
        Public Law 108-199; and
            (4) $55,793 appropriated to carry out the National Cord 
        Blood Stem Cell Bank Program.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 232.  Of the funds made available under prior year 
Appropriation Acts for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
for Individual Learning Accounts, $12,592,000 are hereby rescinded.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 233.  Of the unobligated balances available from prior 
appropriations Acts under the heading ``Department of Health and Human 
Services--Administration for Children and Families--Refugee and Entrant 
Assistance'' for carrying out section 462 of the Homeland Security Act 
of 2002 and section 235 of William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims 
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, $250,000,000 are hereby 
rescinded.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Health and Human 
Services Appropriations Act, 2016''.

                               TITLE III

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                    Education for the Disadvantaged

    For carrying out title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (referred to in this Act as ``ESEA'') and section 418A of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (referred to in this Act as ``HEA''), 
$15,455,802,000, of which $4,575,641,000 shall become available on July 
1, 2016, and shall remain available through September 30, 2017, and of 
which $10,841,177,000 shall become available on October 1, 2016, and 
shall remain available through September 30, 2017, for academic year 
2016-2017:  Provided, That $6,459,401,000 shall be for basic grants 
under section 1124 of the ESEA:  Provided further, That up to 
$3,984,000 of these funds shall be available to the Secretary of 
Education (referred to in this title as ``Secretary'') on October 1, 
2015, to obtain annually updated local educational agency-level census 
poverty data from the Bureau of the Census:  Provided further, That 
$1,362,301,000 shall be for concentration grants under section 1124A of 
the ESEA:  Provided further, That $3,369,050,000 shall be for targeted 
grants under section 1125 of the ESEA:  Provided further, That 
$3,369,050,000 shall be for education finance incentive grants under 
section 1125A of the ESEA:  Provided further, That funds available 
under sections 1124, 1124A, 1125 and 1125A of the ESEA may be used to 
provide homeless children and youths with services not ordinarily 
provided to other students under those sections, including supporting 
the liaison designated pursuant to section 722(g)(1)(J)(ii) of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, and providing transportation 
pursuant to section 722(g)(1)(J)(iii) of such Act:  Provided further, 
That $450,000,000 shall be available for school improvement grants 
under section 1003(g) of the ESEA, which shall be allocated by the 
Secretary through the formula described in section 1003(g)(2) and shall 
be used consistent with the requirements of section 1003(g), except 
that State and local educational agencies may use such funds to serve 
any school eligible to receive assistance under part A of title I that 
has not made adequate yearly progress for at least 2 years or is in the 
State's lowest quintile of performance based on proficiency rates and, 
in the case of secondary schools, priority shall be given to those 
schools with graduation rates below 60 percent:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 1003(g)(5)(C) of the ESEA, the Secretary may 
permit a State educational agency to establish an award period of up to 
5 years for each participating local educational agency:  Provided 
further, That funds available for school improvement grants for fiscal 
year 2014 and thereafter may be used by a local educational agency to 
implement a whole-school reform strategy for a school using an 
evidence-based strategy that ensures whole-school reform is undertaken 
in partnership with a strategy developer offering a whole-school reform 
program that is based on at least a moderate level of evidence that the 
program will have a statistically significant effect on student 
outcomes, including at least one well-designed and well-implemented 
experimental or quasi-experimental study:  Provided further, That funds 
available for school improvement grants may be used by a local 
educational agency to implement an alternative State-determined school 
improvement strategy that has been established by a State educational 
agency with the approval of the Secretary:  Provided further, That a 
local educational agency that is determined to be eligible for services 
under subpart 1 or 2 of part B of title VI of the ESEA may modify not 
more than one element of a school improvement grant model:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 1003(g)(5)(A), each State 
educational agency may establish a maximum subgrant size of not more 
than $2,000,000 for each participating school applicable to such funds: 
 Provided further, That the Secretary may reserve up to 5 percent of 
the funds available for section 1003(g) of the ESEA to carry out 
activities to build State and local educational agency capacity to 
implement effectively the school improvement grants program:  Provided 
further, That $35,000,000 shall be for carrying out section 418A of the 
HEA.

                               Impact Aid

    For carrying out programs of financial assistance to federally 
affected schools authorized by title VIII of the ESEA, $1,288,603,000, 
of which $1,151,233,000 shall be for basic support payments under 
section 8003(b), $48,316,000 shall be for payments for children with 
disabilities under section 8003(d), $17,406,000 shall be for 
construction under section 8007(b) and be available for obligation 
through September 30, 2017, $66,813,000 shall be for Federal property 
payments under section 8002, and $4,835,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for facilities maintenance under section 8008:  
Provided, That for purposes of computing the amount of a payment for an 
eligible local educational agency under section 8003(a) for school year 
2015-2016, children enrolled in a school of such agency that would 
otherwise be eligible for payment under section 8003(a)(1)(B) of such 
Act, but due to the deployment of both parents or legal guardians, or a 
parent or legal guardian having sole custody of such children, or due 
to the death of a military parent or legal guardian while on active 
duty (so long as such children reside on Federal property as described 
in section 8003(a)(1)(B)), are no longer eligible under such section, 
shall be considered as eligible students under such section, provided 
such students remain in average daily attendance at a school in the 
same local educational agency they attended prior to their change in 
eligibility status.

                      School Improvement Programs

    For carrying out school improvement activities authorized by parts 
A and B of title II, part B of title IV, parts A and B of title VI, and 
parts B and C of title VII of the ESEA; the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act; section 203 of the Educational Technical Assistance Act 
of 2002; the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003; and 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, $4,134,746,000, of which $2,326,181,000 
shall become available on July 1, 2016, and remain available through 
September 30, 2017, and of which $1,681,441,000 shall become available 
on October 1, 2016, and shall remain available through September 30, 
2017, for academic year 2016-2017:  Provided, That funds made available 
to carry out part B of title VII of the ESEA may be used for 
construction, renovation, and modernization of any elementary school, 
secondary school, or structure related to an elementary school or 
secondary school, run by the Department of Education of the State of 
Hawaii, that serves a predominantly Native Hawaiian student body:  
Provided further, That funds made available to carry out part C of 
title VII of the ESEA shall be awarded on a competitive basis, and also 
may be used for construction:  Provided further, That $40,000,000 shall 
be available to carry out section 203 of the Educational Technical 
Assistance Act of 2002 and the Secretary shall make such arrangements 
as determined to be necessary to ensure that the Bureau of Indian 
Education has access to services provided under this section:  Provided 
further, That $16,699,000 shall be available to carry out the 
Supplemental Education Grants program for the Federated States of 
Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary may reserve up to 5 percent of the amount referred 
to in the previous proviso to provide technical assistance in the 
implementation of these grants:  Provided further, That up to 5.0 
percent of the funds for subpart 1 of part A of title II of the ESEA 
shall be reserved by the Secretary for competitive awards for teacher 
or principal recruitment and training or professional enhancement 
activities, including for civic education instruction, to national not-
for-profit organizations, of which up to 8 percent may only be used for 
research, dissemination, evaluation, and technical assistance for 
competitive awards carried out under this proviso:  Provided further, 
That $141,299,000 shall be to carry out part B of title II of the ESEA.

                            Indian Education

    For expenses necessary to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, title VII, part A of the ESEA, $123,939,000.

                       Innovation and Improvement

    For carrying out activities authorized by part G of title I, part D 
of title II, parts B, C, and D of title V of the ESEA, $694,616,000:  
Provided, That $225,000,000 of the funds for subpart 1 of part D of 
title V of the ESEA shall be for competitive grants to local 
educational agencies, including charter schools that are local 
educational agencies, or States, or partnerships of: (1) a local 
educational agency, a State, or both; and (2) at least one nonprofit 
organization to develop and implement performance-based compensation 
systems for teachers, principals, and other personnel in high-need 
schools:  Provided further, That such performance-based compensation 
systems must consider gains in student academic achievement as well as 
classroom evaluations conducted multiple times during each school year 
among other factors and provide educators with incentives to take on 
additional responsibilities and leadership roles:  Provided further, 
That recipients of such grants shall demonstrate that such performance-
based compensation systems are developed with the input of teachers and 
school leaders in the schools and local educational agencies to be 
served by the grant:  Provided further, That recipients of such grants 
may use such funds to develop or improve systems and tools (which may 
be developed and used for the entire local educational agency or only 
for schools served under the grant) that would enhance the quality and 
success of the compensation system, such as high-quality teacher 
evaluations and tools to measure growth in student achievement:  
Provided further, That applications for such grants shall include a 
plan to sustain financially the activities conducted and systems 
developed under the grant once the grant period has expired:  Provided 
further, That up to 5 percent of such funds for competitive grants 
shall be available for technical assistance, training, peer review of 
applications, program outreach, and evaluation activities:  Provided 
further, That of the funds available for part B of title V of the ESEA, 
the Secretary shall use up to $9,000,000 to carry out activities under 
section 5205(b) and shall use not less than $13,000,000 for subpart 2:  
Provided further, That of the funds available for subpart 1 of part B 
of title V of the ESEA, and notwithstanding section 5205(a), the 
Secretary shall reserve up to $85,000,000 to make multiple awards to 
nonprofit charter management organizations and other entities that are 
not for-profit entities for the replication and expansion of successful 
charter school models and shall reserve not less than $11,000,000 to 
carry out the activities described in section 5205(a), including 
improving quality and oversight of charter schools and providing 
technical assistance and grants to authorized public chartering 
agencies in order to increase the number of high-performing charter 
schools:  Provided further, That funds available for part B of title V 
of the ESEA may be used for grants that support preschool education in 
charter schools:  Provided further, That each application submitted 
pursuant to section 5203(a) shall describe a plan to monitor and hold 
accountable authorized public chartering agencies through such 
activities as providing technical assistance or establishing a 
professional development program, which may include evaluation, 
planning, training, and systems development for staff of authorized 
public chartering agencies to improve the capacity of such agencies in 
the State to authorize, monitor, and hold accountable charter schools:  
Provided further, That each application submitted pursuant to section 
5203(a) shall contain assurances that State law, regulations, or other 
policies require that: (1) each authorized charter school in the State 
operate under a legally binding charter or performance contract between 
itself and the school's authorized public chartering agency that 
describes the rights and responsibilities of the school and the public 
chartering agency; conduct annual, timely, and independent audits of 
the school's financial statements that are filed with the school's 
authorized public chartering agency; and demonstrate improved student 
academic achievement; and (2) authorized public chartering agencies use 
increases in student academic achievement for all groups of students 
described in section 1111(b)(2)(C)(v) of the ESEA as one of the most 
important factors when determining to renew or revoke a school's 
charter.

                 Safe Schools and Citizenship Education

    For carrying out activities authorized by part A of title IV and 
subparts 1 and 2 of part D of title V of the ESEA, $120,314,000:  
Provided, That $60,000,000 shall be available for subpart 2 of part A 
of title IV, of which up to $5,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for the Project School Emergency Response to 
Violence (``Project SERV'') program to provide education-related 
services to local educational agencies and institutions of higher 
education in which the learning environment has been disrupted due to a 
violent or traumatic crisis:  Provided further, That $37,000,000 shall 
be available through December 31, 2016 for Promise Neighborhoods.

                      English Language Acquisition

    For carrying out part A of title III of the ESEA, $712,021,000, 
which shall become available on July 1, 2016, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2017, except that 6.5 percent of such 
amount shall be available on October 1, 2015, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2017, to carry out activities under 
section 3111(c)(1)(C):  Provided, That the Secretary shall use 
estimates of the American Community Survey child counts for the most 
recent 3-year period available to calculate allocations under such 
part.

                           Special Education

    For carrying out the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
(IDEA) and the Special Olympics Sport and Empowerment Act of 2004, 
$12,636,817,000, of which $3,131,259,000 shall become available on July 
1, 2016, and shall remain available through September 30, 2017, and of 
which $9,283,383,000 shall become available on October 1, 2016, and 
shall remain available through September 30, 2017, for academic year 
2016-2017:  Provided, That the amount for section 611(b)(2) of the IDEA 
shall be equal to the lesser of the amount available for that activity 
during fiscal year 2015, increased by the amount of inflation as 
specified in section 619(d)(2)(B) of the IDEA, or the percent change in 
the funds appropriated under section 611(i) of the IDEA, but not less 
than the amount for that activity during fiscal year 2015:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall, without regard to section 611(d) of 
the IDEA, distribute to all other States (as that term is defined in 
section 611(g)(2)), subject to the third proviso, any amount by which a 
State's allocation under section 611(d), from funds appropriated under 
this heading, is reduced under section 612(a)(18)(B), according to the 
following: 85 percent on the basis of the States' relative populations 
of children aged 3 through 21 who are of the same age as children with 
disabilities for whom the State ensures the availability of a free 
appropriate public education under this part, and 15 percent to States 
on the basis of the States' relative populations of those children who 
are living in poverty:  Provided further, That the Secretary may not 
distribute any funds under the previous proviso to any State whose 
reduction in allocation from funds appropriated under this heading made 
funds available for such a distribution:  Provided further, That the 
States shall allocate such funds distributed under the second proviso 
to local educational agencies in accordance with section 611(f):  
Provided further, That the amount by which a State's allocation under 
section 611(d) of the IDEA is reduced under section 612(a)(18)(B) and 
the amounts distributed to States under the previous provisos in fiscal 
year 2012 or any subsequent year shall not be considered in calculating 
the awards under section 611(d) for fiscal year 2013 or for any 
subsequent fiscal years:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding the 
provision in section 612(a)(18)(B) regarding the fiscal year in which a 
State's allocation under section 611(d) is reduced for failure to 
comply with the requirement of section 612(a)(18)(A), the Secretary may 
apply the reduction specified in section 612(a)(18)(B) over a period of 
consecutive fiscal years, not to exceed five, until the entire 
reduction is applied:  Provided further, That the Secretary may, in any 
fiscal year in which a State's allocation under section 611 is reduced 
in accordance with section 612(a)(18)(B), reduce the amount a State may 
reserve under section 611(e)(1) by an amount that bears the same 
relation to the maximum amount described in that paragraph as the 
reduction under section 612(a)(18)(B) bears to the total allocation the 
State would have received in that fiscal year under section 611(d) in 
the absence of the reduction:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall either reduce the allocation of funds under section 611 for any 
fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the State fails to 
comply with the requirement of section 612(a)(18)(A) as authorized by 
section 612(a)(18)(B), or seek to recover funds under section 452 of 
the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1234a):  Provided 
further, That the funds reserved under 611(c) of the IDEA may be used 
to provide technical assistance to States to improve the capacity of 
the States to meet the data collection requirements of sections 616 and 
618 and to administer and carry out other services and activities to 
improve data collection, coordination, quality, and use under parts B 
and C of the IDEA:  Provided further, That the level of effort a local 
educational agency must meet under section 613(a)(2)(A)(iii) of the 
IDEA, in the year after it fails to maintain effort is the level of 
effort that would have been required in the absence of that failure and 
not the LEA's reduced level of expenditures:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary may use funds made available for the State Personnel 
Development Grants program under part D, subpart 1 of IDEA to evaluate 
program performance under such subpart.

            Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Helen Keller National Center Act, 
$3,487,864,000, of which $3,391,770,000 shall be for grants for 
vocational rehabilitation services under title I of the Rehabilitation 
Act:  Provided, That the Secretary may use amounts provided in this Act 
that remain available subsequent to the reallotment of funds to States 
pursuant to section 110(b) of the Rehabilitation Act for innovative 
activities aimed at improving the outcomes of individuals with 
disabilities as defined in section 7(20)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act, 
including activities aimed at improving the education and post-school 
outcomes of children receiving Supplemental Security Income (``SSI'') 
and their families that may result in long-term improvement in the SSI 
child recipient's economic status and self-sufficiency:  Provided 
further, That States may award subgrants for a portion of the funds to 
other public and private, nonprofit entities:  Provided further, That 
any funds made available subsequent to reallotment for innovative 
activities aimed at improving the outcomes of individuals with 
disabilities shall remain available until September 30, 2017.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities

                 american printing house for the blind

    For carrying out the Act of March 3, 1879, $24,931,000.

               national technical institute for the deaf

    For the National Technical Institute for the Deaf under titles I 
and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, $69,016,000:  
Provided, That from the total amount available, the Institute may at 
its discretion use funds for the endowment program as authorized under 
section 207 of such Act.

                          gallaudet university

    For the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model 
Secondary School for the Deaf, and the partial support of Gallaudet 
University under titles I and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 
1986, $120,275,000:  Provided, That from the total amount available, 
the University may at its discretion use funds for the endowment 
program as authorized under section 207 of such Act.

                 Career, Technical, and Adult Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Carl D. 
Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 and the Adult 
Education and Family Literacy Act (``AEFLA''), $1,669,731,000, of which 
$878,731,000 shall become available on July 1, 2016, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2017, and of which $791,000,000 shall 
become available on October 1, 2016, and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That of the amounts made available for 
AEFLA, $7,712,000 shall be for national leadership activities under 
section 242.

                      Student Financial Assistance

    For carrying out subparts 1, 3, and 10 of part A, and part C of 
title IV of the HEA, $24,129,352,000, which shall remain available 
through September 30, 2017.
    The maximum Pell Grant for which a student shall be eligible during 
award year 2016-2017 shall be $4,860.

                       Student Aid Administration

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out part D of title I, 
and subparts 1, 3, 9, and 10 of part A, and parts B, C, D, and E of 
title IV of the HEA, and subpart 1 of part A of title VII of the Public 
Health Service Act, $1,361,700,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That the Secretary shall, no later than 
December 31, 2015, allocate no less than 50 percent of new student loan 
borrower accounts among eligible not-for-profit student loan servicers, 
excluding those eligible as title IV additional servicers.

                            Higher Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, titles II, 
III, IV, V, VI, and VII of the HEA, the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961, and section 117 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
Technical Education Act of 2006, $1,783,510,000:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made available in 
this Act to carry out title VI of the HEA and section 102(b)(6) of the 
Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 may be used to 
support visits and study in foreign countries by individuals who are 
participating in advanced foreign language training and international 
studies in areas that are vital to United States national security and 
who plan to apply their language skills and knowledge of these 
countries in the fields of government, the professions, or 
international development:  Provided further, That of the funds 
referred to in the preceding proviso up to 1 percent may be used for 
program evaluation, national outreach, and information dissemination 
activities:  Provided further, That up to 1.5 percent of the funds made 
available under chapter 2 of subpart 2 of part A of title IV of the HEA 
may be used for evaluation.

                           Howard University

    For partial support of Howard University, $219,500,000, of which 
not less than $3,350,000 shall be for a matching endowment grant 
pursuant to the Howard University Endowment Act and shall remain 
available until expended.

         College Housing and Academic Facilities Loans Program

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out activities related 
to existing facility loans pursuant to section 121 of the HEA, 
$435,000.

  Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program 
                                Account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $19,096,000, as authorized 
pursuant to part D of title III of the HEA, which shall remain 
available through September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any 
part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $303,593,000:  
Provided further, That these funds may be used to support loans to 
public and private Historically Black Colleges and Universities without 
regard to the limitations within section 344(a) of the HEA.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program 
entered into pursuant to part D of title III of the HEA, $334,000.

                    Institute of Education Sciences

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Education Sciences 
Reform Act of 2002, the National Assessment of Educational Progress 
Authorization Act, section 208 of the Educational Technical Assistance 
Act of 2002, and section 664 of the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act, $562,978,000, which shall remain available through 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That funds available to carry out 
section 208 of the Educational Technical Assistance Act may be used to 
link Statewide elementary and secondary data systems with early 
childhood, postsecondary, and workforce data systems, or to further 
develop such systems:  Provided further, That up to $6,000,000 of the 
funds available to carry out section 208 of the Educational Technical 
Assistance Act may be used for awards to public or private 
organizations or agencies to support activities to improve data 
coordination, quality, and use at the local, State, and national 
levels:  Provided further, That $137,235,000 shall be for carrying out 
activities authorized by the National Assessment of Educational 
Progress Authorization Act.

                        Departmental Management

                         program administration

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Department of Education Organization Act, including rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and hire of three 
passenger motor vehicles, $391,326,000, of which up to $1,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for relocation of, and 
renovation of buildings occupied by, Department staff.

                        office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, as 
authorized by section 203 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $100,000,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, as 
authorized by section 212 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $57,791,000.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 301.  No funds appropriated in this Act may be used for the 
transportation of students or teachers (or for the purchase of 
equipment for such transportation) in order to overcome racial 
imbalance in any school or school system, or for the transportation of 
students or teachers (or for the purchase of equipment for such 
transportation) in order to carry out a plan of racial desegregation of 
any school or school system.
    Sec. 302.  None of the funds contained in this Act shall be used to 
require, directly or indirectly, the transportation of any student to a 
school other than the school which is nearest the student's home, 
except for a student requiring special education, to the school 
offering such special education, in order to comply with title VI of 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964. For the purpose of this section an 
indirect requirement of transportation of students includes the 
transportation of students to carry out a plan involving the 
reorganization of the grade structure of schools, the pairing of 
schools, or the clustering of schools, or any combination of grade 
restructuring, pairing, or clustering. The prohibition described in 
this section does not include the establishment of magnet schools.
    Sec. 303.  No funds appropriated in this Act may be used to prevent 
the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and meditation in 
the public schools.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 304.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the Department of Education in this 
Act may be transferred between appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any such 
transfer:  Provided, That the transfer authority granted by this 
section shall not be used to create any new program or to fund any 
project or activity for which no funds are provided in this Act:  
Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance 
of any transfer.
    Sec. 305.  The Outlying Areas may consolidate funds received under 
this Act, pursuant to 48 U.S.C. 1469a, under part A of title V of the 
ESEA.
    Sec. 306.  Section 105(f)(1)(B)(ix) of the Compact of Free 
Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d(f)(1)(B)(ix)) shall 
be applied by substituting ``2016'' for ``2009''.
    Sec. 307.  The Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the 
Institute of Education Sciences, may reserve funds under section 9601 
of the ESEA (subject to the limitations in subsections (b) and (c) of 
that section) in order to carry out activities authorized under 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of that section with respect 
to any ESEA program funded in this Act and without respect to the 
source of funds for those activities:  Provided, That high-quality 
evaluations of ESEA programs shall be prioritized, before using funds 
for any other evaluation activities:  Provided further, That any funds 
reserved under this section shall be available from July 1, 2016 
through September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That not later than 10 
days prior to the initial obligation of funds reserved under this 
section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Director, shall submit 
an evaluation plan to the Senate Committees on Appropriations and 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the House Committees on 
Appropriations and Education and the Workforce which identifies the 
source and amount of funds reserved under this section, the impact on 
program grantees if funds are withheld, the programs to be evaluated 
with such funds, how ESEA programs will be regularly evaluated, and how 
findings from evaluations completed under this section will be widely 
disseminated.
    Sec. 308. (a) An institution of higher education that maintains an 
endowment fund supported with funds appropriated for title III or V of 
the HEA for fiscal year 2016 or any prior fiscal year may use the 
income from that fund to award scholarships to students, subject to the 
limitation in section 331(c)(3)(B)(i) of the HEA. The use of such 
income for such purposes, prior to the enactment of this Act, shall be 
considered to have been an allowable use of that income, subject to 
that limitation.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall be in effect until titles III and V of the 
HEA are reauthorized.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 309.  Of the unobligated balances available from Public Law 
113-235 under the heading ``Student Financial Assistance'' for carrying 
out subpart 1 of part A of title IV of the HEA, $300,000,000 are hereby 
rescinded.
    Sec. 310.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to--
            (1) implement, administer, or enforce sections 600.10(c), 
        600.20(d), 668.6 and 668.7 of title 34, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (relating to gainful employment) as added or 
        amended by the final regulations published by the Department of 
        Education on October 31, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 64889 et seq.), or 
        promulgate any new regulation with respect to the definition or 
        application of the term ``gainful employment'' in the Higher 
        Education Act of 1965;
            (2) implement, administer, or enforce sections 600.4(a)(3), 
        600.5(a)(4), 600.6(a)(3), 600.9, or 668.43(b) of title 34, Code 
        of Federal Regulations (relating to state authorization), as 
        added or amended by the final regulations published by the 
        Department of Education in the Federal Register on October 29, 
        2010 (75 Fed. Reg. 66832 et seq.) or promulgate any new 
        regulation with respect to the State authorization for 
        institutions of higher education to operate within a State;
            (3) implement, administer, or enforce the definition of the 
        term ``credit hour'' in section 600.2 of title 34, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, as added by the final regulations 
        published by the Department of Education in the Federal 
        Register on October 29, 2010 (75 Fed. Reg. 66946) and clauses 
        (i)(A), (ii), and (iii) of subsection (k)(2) of section 668.8 
        of such title, as amended by such final regulations (75 Fed. 
        Reg. 66949 et seq.), or promulgate any new regulation with 
        respect to the definition of the term ``credit hour'' for any 
        purpose under the Higher Education Act;
            (4) carry out, develop, refine, promulgate, publish, 
        implement, administer, or enforce a postsecondary institution 
        ratings system or any other performance system to rate 
        institutions of higher education (as defined in section 102 of 
        the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002); or
            (5) promulgate, implement, administer, or enforce the 
        proposed rule establishing a teacher preparation program 
        accountability system as published by the Department of 
        Education in the Federal Register on December 3, 2014 (79 Fed. 
        Reg. 71819 et seq.), or any new regulation with respect to a 
        teacher preparation program accountability system:
  Provided, That this section shall no longer apply upon enactment of a 
law that extends by not less than 2 fiscal years the authorization or 
duration of one or more programs under the Higher Education Act of 
1965.
    Sec. 311.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to (including 
as a condition of any waiver provided under section 9401 of the ESEA)--
            (1) mandate, direct, or control a State, local educational 
        agency, or school's curriculum, program of instruction, 
        instructional content, specific academic standards or 
        assessments;
            (2) incentivize a State, local educational agency, or 
        school to adopt any specific instructional content, academic 
        standards, academic assessments, curriculum, or program of 
        instruction, including by providing any priority, preference, 
        or special consideration during the application process for any 
        grant, contract, or cooperative agreement that is based on the 
        adoption of any specific instructional content, academic 
        standards, academic assessments, curriculum, or program of 
        instruction; or
            (3) make financial support available in a manner that is 
        conditioned upon a State, local educational agency, or school's 
        adoption of any specific instructional content, academic 
        standards, academic assessments, curriculum, or program of 
        instruction (such as the Common Core State Standards developed 
        under the Common Core State Standards Initiative, any other 
        standards common to a significant number of States, or any 
        specific assessment, instructional content, or curriculum 
        aligned to such standards).
    Sec. 312.  Career Pathways Programs.--
            (1) Subsection (d) of section 484 of the HEA is amended by 
        replacing (d)(2) with the following:
            ``(2) Eligible career pathway program.--In this subsection, 
        the term `eligible career pathway program' means a program that 
        combines rigorous and high-quality education, training, and 
        other services that--
                    ``(A) aligns with the skill needs of industries in 
                the economy of the State or regional economy involved;
                    ``(B) prepares an individual to be successful in 
                any of a full range of secondary or postsecondary 
                education options, including apprenticeships registered 
                under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the 
                `National Apprenticeship Act'; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 
                663; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.) (referred to individually in 
                this Act as an `apprenticeship', except in section 
                171);
                    ``(C) includes counseling to support an individual 
                in achieving the individual's education and career 
                goals;
                    ``(D) includes, as appropriate, education offered 
                concurrently with and in the same context as workforce 
                preparation activities and training for a specific 
                occupation or occupational cluster;
                    ``(E) organizes education, training, and other 
                services to meet the particular needs of an individual 
                in a manner that accelerates the educational and career 
                advancement of the individual to the extent 
                practicable;
                    ``(F) enables an individual to attain a secondary 
                school diploma or its recognized equivalent, and at 
                least 1 recognized postsecondary credential; and
                    ``(G) helps an individual enter or advance within a 
                specific occupation or occupational cluster.''.
            (2) Subsection (b) of section 401 of the HEA is amended by 
        striking the addition to (b)(2)(A)(ii) made by subsection 
        309(b) of division G of Public Law 113-235.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Education 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by Public Law 92-28, 
$5,362,000.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service (referred to in this title as ``CNCS'') to carry out 
the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (referred to in this title 
as ``1973 Act'') and the National and Community Service Act of 1990 
(referred to in this title as ``1990 Act''), $614,075,000, 
notwithstanding sections 198B(b)(3), 198S(g), 501(a)(6), 501(a)(4)(C), 
and 501(a)(4)(F) of the 1990 Act:  Provided, That of the amounts 
provided under this heading: (1) up to 1 percent of program grant funds 
may be used to defray the costs of conducting grant application 
reviews, including the use of outside peer reviewers and electronic 
management of the grants cycle; (2) $16,038,000 shall be available to 
provide assistance to State commissions on national and community 
service, under section 126(a) of the 1990 Act and notwithstanding 
section 501(a)(5)(B) of the 1990 Act; (3) $30,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out subtitle E of the 1990 Act; and (4) $3,800,000 
shall be available for expenses authorized under section 501(a)(4)(F) 
of the 1990 Act, which, notwithstanding the provisions of section 198P 
shall be awarded by CNCS on a competitive basis:  Provided further, 
That for the purposes of carrying out the 1990 Act, satisfying the 
requirements in section 122(c)(1)(D) may include a determination of 
need by the local community.

                 payment to the national service trust

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payment to the National Service Trust established under 
subtitle D of title I of the 1990 Act, $145,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That CNCS may transfer additional 
funds from the amount provided within ``Operating Expenses'' allocated 
to grants under subtitle C of title I of the 1990 Act to the National 
Service Trust upon determination that such transfer is necessary to 
support the activities of national service participants and after 
notice is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate:  Provided further, That amounts 
appropriated for or transferred to the National Service Trust may be 
invested under section 145(b) of the 1990 Act without regard to the 
requirement to apportion funds under 31 U.S.C. 1513(b).

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administration as provided under section 
501(a)(5) of the 1990 Act and under section 504(a) of the 1973 Act, 
including payment of salaries, authorized travel, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, the rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia, the employment of experts and consultants authorized under 5 
U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $80,000,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $5,250,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Sec. 401.  CNCS shall make any significant changes to program 
requirements, service delivery or policy only through public notice and 
comment rulemaking. For fiscal year 2016, during any grant selection 
process, an officer or employee of CNCS shall not knowingly disclose 
any covered grant selection information regarding such selection, 
directly or indirectly, to any person other than an officer or employee 
of CNCS that is authorized by CNCS to receive such information.
    Sec. 402.  AmeriCorps programs receiving grants under the National 
Service Trust program shall meet an overall minimum share requirement 
of 24 percent for the first 3 years that they receive AmeriCorps 
funding, and thereafter shall meet the overall minimum share 
requirement as provided in section 2521.60 of title 45, Code of Federal 
Regulations, without regard to the operating costs match requirement in 
section 121(e) or the member support Federal share limitations in 
section 140 of the 1990 Act, and subject to partial waiver consistent 
with section 2521.70 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 403.  Donations made to CNCS under section 196 of the 1990 Act 
for the purposes of financing programs and operations under titles I 
and II of the 1973 Act or subtitle B, C, D, or E of title I of the 1990 
Act shall be used to supplement and not supplant current programs and 
operations.
    Sec. 404.  In addition to the requirements in section 146(a) of the 
1990 Act, use of an educational award for the purpose described in 
section 148(a)(4) shall be limited to individuals who are veterans as 
defined under section 101 of the Act.
    Sec. 405.  For the purpose of carrying out section 189D of the 1990 
Act--
            (1) entities described in paragraph (a) of such section 
        shall be considered ``qualified entities'' under section 3 of 
        the National Child Protection Act of 1993 (``NCPA''); and
            (2) individuals described in such section shall be 
        considered ``volunteers'' under section 3 of NCPA; and
            (3) State Commissions on National and Community Service 
        established pursuant to section 178 of the 1990 Act, are 
        authorized to receive criminal history record information, 
        consistent with Public Law 92-544.

                  Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For payment to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (``CPB''), 
as authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, an amount which shall 
be available within limitations specified by that Act, for the fiscal 
year 2018, $445,000,000:  Provided, That none of the funds made 
available to CPB by this Act shall be used to pay for receptions, 
parties, or similar forms of entertainment for Government officials or 
employees:  Provided further, That none of the funds made available to 
CPB by this Act shall be available or used to aid or support any 
program or activity from which any person is excluded, or is denied 
benefits, or is discriminated against, on the basis of race, color, 
national origin, religion, or sex:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available to CPB by this Act shall be used to apply any 
political test or qualification in selecting, appointing, promoting, or 
taking any other personnel action with respect to officers, agents, and 
employees of CPB:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to CPB by this Act shall be used to support the Television 
Future Fund or any similar purpose:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, from amounts appropriated 
under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76) for 
the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for fiscal year 2016, not to 
exceed $40,000,000 may be available for allocation to provide funding 
for the first phase of the multi-year project to replace and upgrade 
the public television interconnection system without altering the 
percentages of funds made available for allocation pursuant to 
subclause (II) of section 396(k)(3)(A)(i) of the Communications Act of 
1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(k)(3)(A)(i)) from the total of such amounts and 
without altering the percentages of funds made available for allocation 
pursuant to subclause (I), subclause (III) and subclause (IV) of that 
section of that Act from any remaining amounts.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation 
Service (``Service'') to carry out the functions vested in it by the 
Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, including hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; for expenses necessary for the Labor-Management Cooperation 
Act of 1978; and for expenses necessary for the Service to carry out 
the functions vested in it by the Civil Service Reform Act, 
$47,823,000, including up to $400,000 to remain available through 
September 30, 2017, for activities authorized by the Labor-Management 
Cooperation Act of 1978:  Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302, fees charged, up to full-cost recovery, for special training 
activities and other conflict resolution services and technical 
assistance, including those provided to foreign governments and 
international organizations, and for arbitration services shall be 
credited to and merged with this account, and shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That fees for arbitration services 
shall be available only for education, training, and professional 
development of the agency workforce:  Provided further, That the 
Director of the Service is authorized to accept and use on behalf of 
the United States gifts of services and real, personal, or other 
property in the aid of any projects or functions within the Director's 
jurisdiction.

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mine Safety and Health 
Review Commission, $15,950,000.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

    office of museum and library services: grants and administration

    For carrying out the Museum and Library Services Act of 1996 and 
the National Museum of African American History and Culture Act, 
$227,860,000.

            Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1900 of the Social 
Security Act, $7,250,000.

                  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1805 of the Social 
Security Act, $11,100,000, to be transferred to this appropriation from 
the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

                     National Council on Disability

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Council on Disability as 
authorized by title IV of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, $3,075,000.

                     National Labor Relations Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Labor Relations Board to 
carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-Management Relations 
Act, 1947, and other laws, $246,802,000:  Provided, That no part of 
this appropriation shall be available to organize or assist in 
organizing agricultural laborers or used in connection with 
investigations, hearings, directives, or orders concerning bargaining 
units composed of agricultural laborers as referred to in section 2(3) 
of the Act of July 5, 1935, and as amended by the Labor-Management 
Relations Act, 1947, and as defined in section 3(f) of the Act of June 
25, 1938, and including in said definition employees engaged in the 
maintenance and operation of ditches, canals, reservoirs, and waterways 
when maintained or operated on a mutual, nonprofit basis and at least 
95 percent of the water stored or supplied thereby is used for farming 
purposes.

                        administrative provision

    Sec. 406.  None of the funds provided by this Act or previous Acts 
making appropriations for the National Labor Relations Board may be 
used to issue any new administrative directive or regulation that would 
provide employees any means of voting through any electronic means in 
an election to determine a representative for the purposes of 
collective bargaining.
    Sec. 407.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement or enforce any rule amending parts 101, 102, and 103 of 
title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to the filing and 
processing of petitions pursuant to the representation of employees for 
the purposes of collective bargaining with their employer), including 
the final rule published by the National Labor Relations Board in the 
Federal Register on December 15, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 74308).
    Sec. 408.  None of the funds in this or any other Act making 
appropriations for the National Labor Relations Board or any other 
Federal Agencies shall be used to investigate, issue, enforce or 
litigate any administrative directive, regulation, representation issue 
or unfair labor practice proceeding or any other administrative 
complaint, charge, claim or proceeding that would change the 
interpretation or application of a standard to determine whether 
entities are ``joint employers'' in effect as of January 1, 2014. As 
established in TLI, Inc. 271 NLRB 798 (1984) enforced 772 F.2d 894 (3d 
Cir. 1985), Airborne Express, 338 NLRB 597 (2002), and The Southland 
Corporation dba Speedee 7-Eleven, 170 NLRB 1332 (1968), a ``joint 
employer'' under the National Labor Relations Act as of January 1, 2014 
is defined as two or more separate and independent business entities 
where one entity directly and immediately controls the essential terms 
and conditions of employment of the other entity's employees, including 
hiring, firing, discipline, supervision and direction.
    Sec. 409.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to implement, 
create, apply or enforce through prosecution, adjudication, rulemaking, 
or the issuing of any interpretation, opinion, certification, decision 
or policy, any standard for initial bargaining unit determinations that 
conflicts with the standard articulated in the majority opinion in 
Wheeling Island Gaming Inc. and United Food and Commercial Workers 
International Union, Local 23, 355 NLRB 127 (August 27, 2010) 
(including but not limited to the majority opinion in footnote 2), 
except for unit determinations currently governed by NLRB rule section 
103.30 for employers currently covered by such rules. Further, no funds 
in this Act shall be used to implement, create, apply or enforce 
through prosecution, adjudication, rulemaking, or the issuing of any 
interpretation, opinion, certification, decision or policy, any 
standard for initial bargaining unit determinations that utilize the 
overwhelming community of interest test except in accretion cases.

                        National Mediation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Railway 
Labor Act, including emergency boards appointed by the President, 
$12,600,000.

            Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Review Commission, $11,100,000.

                       Railroad Retirement Board

                     dual benefits payments account

    For payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account, authorized under 
section 15(d) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, $29,000,000, 
which shall include amounts becoming available in fiscal year 2016 
pursuant to section 224(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 98-76; and in addition, 
an amount, not to exceed 2 percent of the amount provided herein, shall 
be available proportional to the amount by which the product of 
recipients and the average benefit received exceeds the amount 
available for payment of vested dual benefits:  Provided, That the 
total amount provided herein shall be credited in 12 approximately 
equal amounts on the first day of each month in the fiscal year.

          federal payments to the railroad retirement accounts

    For payment to the accounts established in the Treasury for the 
payment of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act for interest 
earned on unnegotiated checks, $150,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2017, which shall be the maximum amount available for 
payment pursuant to section 417 of Public Law 98-76.

                      limitation on administration

    For necessary expenses for the Railroad Retirement Board 
(``Board'') for administration of the Railroad Retirement Act and the 
Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, $111,225,000, to be derived in 
such amounts as determined by the Board from the railroad retirement 
accounts and from moneys credited to the railroad unemployment 
insurance administration fund:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 
7(b)(9) of the Railroad Retirement Act this limitation may be used to 
hire attorneys only through the excepted service:  Provided further, 
That the previous proviso shall not change the status under Federal 
employment laws of any attorney hired by the Railroad Retirement Board 
prior to January 1, 2013.

             limitation on the office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General for 
audit, investigatory and review activities, as authorized by the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, not more than $8,437,000, to be derived 
from the railroad retirement accounts and railroad unemployment 
insurance account.

                     Social Security Administration

                payments to social security trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, as provided under 
sections 201(m), 217(g), 228(g), and 1131(b)(2) of the Social Security 
Act, $20,400,000.

                  supplemental security income program

    For carrying out titles XI and XVI of the Social Security Act, 
section 401 of Public Law 92-603, section 212 of Public Law 93-66, as 
amended, and section 405 of Public Law 95-216, including payment to the 
Social Security trust funds for administrative expenses incurred 
pursuant to section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, 
$46,110,777,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
any portion of the funds provided to a State in the current fiscal year 
and not obligated by the State during that year shall be returned to 
the Treasury:  Provided further, That not more than $101,000,000 shall 
be available for research and demonstrations under sections 1110, 1115, 
and 1144 of the Social Security Act, and remain available through 
September 30, 2018.
    For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social Security Act, for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title XVI of the Social Security 
Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, $14,500,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    For necessary expenses, including the hire of two passenger motor 
vehicles, and not to exceed $20,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, not more than $10,044,945,000 may be expended, 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to in such section:  Provided, 
That not less than $2,300,000 shall be for the Social Security Advisory 
Board:  Provided further, That $11,900,000 may be used for necessary 
expenses for the planning and design of the renovation and 
modernization of SSA facilities, to remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That unobligated balances of funds provided under 
this paragraph at the end of fiscal year 2016 not needed for fiscal 
year 2016 shall remain available until expended to invest in the Social 
Security Administration information technology and telecommunications 
hardware and software infrastructure, including related equipment and 
non-payroll administrative expenses associated solely with this 
information technology and telecommunications infrastructure:  Provided 
further, That the Commissioner of Social Security shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate prior to making unobligated balances available under the 
authority in the previous proviso:  Provided further, That 
reimbursement to the trust funds under this heading for expenditures 
for official time for employees of the Social Security Administration 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7131, and for facilities or support services for 
labor organizations pursuant to policies, regulations, or procedures 
referred to in section 7135(b) of such title shall be made by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, with interest, from amounts in the general 
fund not otherwise appropriated, as soon as possible after such 
expenditures are made.
    In addition, for the costs associated with continuing disability 
reviews under titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act and for the 
cost associated with conducting redeterminations of eligibility under 
title XVI of the Social Security Act, $1,439,000,000 may be expended, 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to therein:  Provided, That, of 
such amount, $273,000,000 is provided to meet the terms of section 
251(b)(2)(B)(ii)(III) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $1,166,000,000 is additional new 
budget authority specified for purposes of section 251(b)(2)(B) of such 
Act:  Provided further, That the Commissioner shall provide to the 
Congress (at the conclusion of the fiscal year) a report on the 
obligation and expenditure of these funds, similar to the reports that 
were required by section 103(d)(2) of Public Law 104-121 for fiscal 
years 1996 through 2002.
    In addition, $136,000,000 to be derived from administration fees in 
excess of $5.00 per supplementary payment collected pursuant to section 
1616(d) of the Social Security Act or section 212(b)(3) of Public Law 
93-66, which shall remain available until expended. To the extent that 
the amounts collected pursuant to such sections in fiscal year 2016 
exceed $136,000,000, the amounts shall be available in fiscal year 2017 
only to the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
    In addition, up to $1,000,000 to be derived from fees collected 
pursuant to section 303(c) of the Social Security Protection Act, which 
shall remain available until expended.

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$28,829,000, together with not to exceed $74,521,000, to be transferred 
and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security 
Act from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund.
    In addition, an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the total 
provided in this appropriation may be transferred from the ``Limitation 
on Administrative Expenses'', Social Security Administration, to be 
merged with this account, to be available for the time and purposes for 
which this account is available:  Provided, That notice of such 
transfers shall be transmitted promptly to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate at least 
15 days in advance of any transfer.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 501.  The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education are authorized to transfer unexpended balances of prior 
appropriations to accounts corresponding to current appropriations 
provided in this Act. Such transferred balances shall be used for the 
same purpose, and for the same periods of time, for which they were 
originally appropriated.
    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act or 
transferred pursuant to section 4002 of Public Law 111-148 shall be 
used, other than for normal and recognized executive-legislative 
relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, for the 
preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, electronic communication, radio, television, or video 
presentation designed to support or defeat the enactment of legislation 
before the Congress or any State or local legislature or legislative 
body, except in presentation to the Congress or any State or local 
legislature itself, or designed to support or defeat any proposed or 
pending regulation, administrative action, or order issued by the 
executive branch of any State or local government, except in 
presentation to the executive branch of any State or local government 
itself.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act or 
transferred pursuant to section 4002 of Public Law 111-148 shall be 
used to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or contract recipient, 
or agent acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to 
influence the enactment of legislation, appropriations, regulation, 
administrative action, or Executive order proposed or pending before 
the Congress or any State government, State legislature or local 
legislature or legislative body, other than for normal and recognized 
executive-legislative relationships or participation by an agency or 
officer of a State, local or tribal government in policymaking and 
administrative processes within the executive branch of that 
government.
    (c) The prohibitions in subsections (a) and (b) shall include any 
activity to advocate or promote any proposed, pending or future 
Federal, State or local tax increase, or any proposed, pending, or 
future requirement or restriction on any legal consumer product, 
including its sale or marketing, including but not limited to the 
advocacy or promotion of gun control.
    Sec. 504.  The Secretaries of Labor and Education are authorized to 
make available not to exceed $28,000 and $20,000, respectively, from 
funds available for salaries and expenses under titles I and III, 
respectively, for official reception and representation expenses; the 
Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service is 
authorized to make available for official reception and representation 
expenses not to exceed $5,000 from the funds available for ``Federal 
Mediation and Conciliation Service, Salaries and Expenses''; and the 
Chairman of the National Mediation Board is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $5,000 from funds available for ``National Mediation Board, 
Salaries and Expenses''.
    Sec. 505.  When issuing statements, press releases, requests for 
proposals, bid solicitations and other documents describing projects or 
programs funded in whole or in part with Federal money, all grantees 
receiving Federal funds included in this Act, including but not limited 
to State and local governments and recipients of Federal research 
grants, shall clearly state--
            (1) the percentage of the total costs of the program or 
        project which will be financed with Federal money;
            (2) the dollar amount of Federal funds for the project or 
        program; and
            (3) percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the 
        project or program that will be financed by non-governmental 
        sources.
    Sec. 506. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, and none 
of the funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated in this 
Act, shall be expended for any abortion.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, and none of the 
funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated in this Act, 
shall be expended for health benefits coverage that includes coverage 
of abortion.
    (c) The term ``health benefits coverage'' means the package of 
services covered by a managed care provider or organization pursuant to 
a contract or other arrangement.
    Sec. 507. (a) The limitations established in the preceding section 
shall not apply to an abortion--
            (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or 
        incest; or
            (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical 
        disorder, physical injury, or physical illness, including a 
        life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from 
        the pregnancy itself, that would, as certified by a physician, 
        place the woman in danger of death unless an abortion is 
        performed.
    (b) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
prohibiting the expenditure by a State, locality, entity, or private 
person of State, local, or private funds (other than a State's or 
locality's contribution of Medicaid matching funds).
    (c) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
restricting the ability of any managed care provider from offering 
abortion coverage or the ability of a State or locality to contract 
separately with such a provider for such coverage with State funds 
(other than a State's or locality's contribution of Medicaid matching 
funds).
    (d)(1) None of the funds made available in this Act may be made 
available to a Federal agency or program, or to a State or local 
government, if such agency, program, or government subjects any 
institutional or individual health care entity to discrimination on the 
basis that the health care entity does not provide, pay for, provide 
coverage of, or refer for abortions.
    (2) In this subsection, the term ``health care entity'' includes an 
individual physician or other health care professional, a hospital, a 
provider-sponsored organization, a health maintenance organization, a 
health insurance plan, or any other kind of health care facility, 
organization, or plan.
    Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for--
            (1) the creation of a human embryo or embryos for research 
        purposes; or
            (2) research in which a human embryo or embryos are 
        destroyed, discarded, or knowingly subjected to risk of injury 
        or death greater than that allowed for research on fetuses in 
        utero under 45 CFR 46.204(b) and section 498(b) of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289g(b)).
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``human embryo or 
embryos'' includes any organism, not protected as a human subject under 
45 CFR 46 as of the date of the enactment of this Act, that is derived 
by fertilization, parthenogenesis, cloning, or any other means from one 
or more human gametes or human diploid cells.
    Sec. 509. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for any activity that promotes the legalization of any drug or 
other substance included in schedule I of the schedules of controlled 
substances established under section 202 of the Controlled Substances 
Act except for normal and recognized executive-congressional 
communications.
    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply when there is 
significant medical evidence of a therapeutic advantage to the use of 
such drug or other substance or that federally sponsored clinical 
trials are being conducted to determine therapeutic advantage.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to promulgate or adopt any final standard under section 1173(b) of the 
Social Security Act providing for, or providing for the assignment of, 
a unique health identifier for an individual (except in an individual's 
capacity as an employer or a health care provider), until legislation 
is enacted specifically approving the standard.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended to enter into or renew a contract with an entity 
if--
            (1) such entity is otherwise a contractor with the United 
        States and is subject to the requirement in 38 U.S.C. 4212(d) 
        regarding submission of an annual report to the Secretary of 
        Labor concerning employment of certain veterans; and
            (2) such entity has not submitted a report as required by 
        that section for the most recent year for which such 
        requirement was applicable to such entity.
    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.
    Sec. 513.  None of the funds made available by this Act to carry 
out the Library Services and Technology Act may be made available to 
any library covered by paragraph (1) of section 224(f) of such Act, as 
amended by the Children's Internet Protection Act, unless such library 
has made the certifications required by paragraph (4) of such section.
    Sec. 514. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by 
this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2016, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes or renames offices;
            (6) reorganizes programs or activities; or
            (7) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate are consulted 15 days in advance of such reprogramming 
or of an announcement of intent relating to such reprogramming, 
whichever occurs earlier, and are notified in writing 10 days in 
advance of such reprogramming.
    (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided under 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2016, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever 
is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects (including 
        construction projects), or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
        activities, or projects as approved by Congress;
unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate are consulted 15 days in advance of such reprogramming 
or of an announcement of intent relating to such reprogramming, 
whichever occurs earlier, and are notified in writing 10 days in 
advance of such reprogramming.
    Sec. 515. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to request that a candidate for appointment to a Federal 
scientific advisory committee disclose the political affiliation or 
voting history of the candidate or the position that the candidate 
holds with respect to political issues not directly related to and 
necessary for the work of the committee involved.
    (b) None of the funds made available in this Act may be used to 
disseminate information that is deliberately false or misleading.
    Sec. 516.  Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, each department 
and related agency funded through this Act shall submit an operating 
plan that details at the program, project, and activity level any 
funding allocations for fiscal year 2016 that are different than those 
specified in this Act, the accompanying detailed table in the report 
accompanying this Act, or the fiscal year 2016 budget request.
    Sec. 517.  The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education shall each prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report 
on the number and amount of contracts, grants, and cooperative 
agreements exceeding $500,000 in value and awarded by the Department on 
a non-competitive basis during each quarter of fiscal year 2016, but 
not to include grants awarded on a formula basis or directed by law. 
Such report shall include the name of the contractor or grantee, the 
amount of funding, the governmental purpose, including a justification 
for issuing the award on a non-competitive basis. Such report shall be 
transmitted to the Committees within 30 days after the end of the 
quarter for which the report is submitted.
    Sec. 518.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
expended or obligated by the Commissioner of Social Security, for 
purposes of administering Social Security benefit payments under title 
II of the Social Security Act, to process any claim for credit for a 
quarter of coverage based on work performed under a social security 
account number that is not the claimant's number and the performance of 
such work under such number has formed the basis for a conviction of 
the claimant of a violation of section 208(a)(6) or (7) of the Social 
Security Act.
    Sec. 519.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
by the Commissioner of Social Security or the Social Security 
Administration to pay the compensation of employees of the Social 
Security Administration to administer Social Security benefit payments, 
under any agreement between the United States and Mexico establishing 
totalization arrangements between the social security system 
established by title II of the Social Security Act and the social 
security system of Mexico, which would not otherwise be payable but for 
such agreement.
    Sec. 520.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no 
funds appropriated in this Act shall be used to purchase sterile 
needles or syringes for the hypodermic injection of any illegal drug:  
Provided, That such limitation does not apply to the use of funds for 
elements of a program other than making such purchases if the relevant 
State or local health department, in consultation with the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, determines that the State or local 
jurisdiction, as applicable, is experiencing, or is at risk for, a 
significant increase in hepatitis infections or an HIV outbreak due to 
injection drug use, and such program is operating in accordance with 
State and local law.
    Sec. 521. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 522.  None of the funds made available under this or any other 
Act, or any prior Appropriations Act, may be provided to the 
Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (``ACORN''), or 
any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, allied organizations, or 
successors.
    Sec. 523.  For purposes of carrying out Executive Order 13589, 
Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012, 
and requirements contained in the annual appropriations bills relating 
to conference attendance and expenditures:
            (1) the operating divisions of HHS shall be considered 
        independent agencies; and
            (2) attendance at and support for scientific conferences 
        shall be tabulated separately from and not included in agency 
        totals.
    Sec. 524.  Federal agencies funded under this Act shall clearly 
state within the text, audio, or video used for advertising or 
educational purposes, including emails or Internet postings, that the 
communication is printed, published, or produced and disseminated at 
U.S. taxpayer expense. The funds used by a Federal agency to carry out 
this requirement shall be derived from amounts made available to the 
agency for advertising or other communications regarding the programs 
and activities of the agency.
    Sec. 525. (a) Federal agencies may use Federal discretionary funds 
that are made available in this Act to carry out up to 10 Performance 
Partnership Pilots. Such Pilots shall--
            (1) be designed to improve outcomes for disconnected youth;
            (2) include communities that have recently experienced 
        civil unrest; and
            (3) involve Federal programs targeted on disconnected 
        youth, or designed to prevent youth from disconnecting from 
        school or work, that provide education, training, employment, 
        and other related social services. Such Pilots shall be 
        governed by the provisions of section 526 of division H of 
        Public Law 113-76, except that in carrying out such Pilots 
        section 526 shall be applied by substituting ``Fiscal Year 
        2016'' for ``Fiscal Year 2014'' in the title of subsection (b) 
        and by substituting ``September 30, 2020'' for ``September 30, 
        2018'' each place it appears.
    (b) In addition, Federal agencies may use Federal discretionary 
funds that are made available in this Act to participate in Performance 
Partnership Pilots that are being carried out pursuant to the authority 
provided by section 526 of division H of Public Law 113-76, and section 
524 of division G of Public Law 113-235:  Provided, That new pilots 
that are being carried out with discretionary funds made available in 
division G of Public Law 113-25 shall include communities that have 
recently experienced civil unrest.
    Sec. 526.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, the 
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services and Education and the 
Social Security Administration shall provide the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate a quarterly 
report on the status of balances of appropriations:  Provided, That for 
balances that are unobligated and uncommitted, committed, and obligated 
but unexpended, the quarterly reports shall separately identify the 
amounts attributable to each source year of appropriation (beginning 
with fiscal year 2012, or, to the extent feasible, earlier fiscal 
years) from which balances were derived.
    Sec. 527.  Section 2812(d)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300hh-11(d)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating the three sentences as subparagraphs 
        (A), (B), and (C), respectively, and indenting accordingly;
            (2) in subparagraph (A), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``An'' and inserting ``In general.--An'';
            (3) in subparagraph (B), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``With'' and inserting ``Application to training programs.--
        With'';
            (4) in subparagraph (C), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``In'' and inserting ``Responsibility of labor secretary.--
        In''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(D) Computation of pay.--In the event of an 
                injury to such an intermittent disaster response 
                appointee, the position of the employee shall be deemed 
                to be `one which would have afforded employment for 
                substantially a whole year', for purposes of section 
                8114(d)(2) of such title.
                    ``(E) Continuation of pay.--The weekly pay of such 
                an employee shall be deemed to be the hourly pay in 
                effect on the date of the injury multiplied by 40, for 
                purposes of computing benefits under section 8118 of 
                such title.''.
    Sec. 528.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended in contravention of 8 U.S.C. 1183a.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 529.  Of the funds made available for fiscal year 2016 under 
section 3403 of Public Law 111-148, $15,000,000 are hereby rescinded.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 530.  Of the funds made available for the Consumer Operated 
and Oriented Plans under section 1322 of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18042), $18,000,000 are hereby 
rescinded.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 531.  Amounts deposited or available in the Child Enrollment 
Contingency Fund from appropriations to the Fund under section 
2104(n)(2)(A)(i) of the Social Security Act and the income derived from 
investment of those funds pursuant to 2104(n)(2)(C) of that Act, shall 
not be available for obligation in this fiscal year.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 532.  Of any available amounts appropriated under section 108 
of Public Law 111-3, as amended, $3,970,478,000 are hereby rescinded.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 533.  Of the unobligated balances available from the Community 
Health Center Fund in prior fiscal years, $190,000,000 are hereby 
rescinded.
    This division may be cited as the ``Departments of Labor, Health 
and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2016''.
                                                       Calendar No. 251

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 2132

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for financial services and general government, 
  Department of the Interior, environment, and Departments of Labor, 
Health and Human Services, and Education, and related programs for the 
     fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 6, 2015

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
