[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 100 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                   House Calendar No. 8
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 100

                          [Report No. 114-22]

Providing for consideration of the bill (S. 1) to approve the Keystone 
   XL Pipeline, and providing for proceedings during the period from 
             February 16, 2015, through February 23, 2015.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 10, 2015

   Mr. Woodall, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (S. 1) to approve the Keystone 
   XL Pipeline, and providing for proceedings during the period from 
             February 16, 2015, through February 23, 2015.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (S. 1) to approve the Keystone 
XL Pipeline. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate 
equally divided among and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure; and (2) one motion to commit.
    Sec. 2.  On any legislative day during the period from February 16, 
2015, through February 23, 2015--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be 
considered as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet 
at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I 
of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the 
adjournment.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of 
the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this 
resolution as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
                                                   House Calendar No. 8

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 100

                          [Report No. 114-22]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (S. 1) to approve the Keystone 
   XL Pipeline, and providing for proceedings during the period from 
             February 16, 2015, through February 23, 2015.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           February 10, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
