[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 483 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                  House Calendar No. 68
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 483

                          [Report No. 114-303]

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3762) to provide for 
reconciliation pursuant to section 2002 of the concurrent resolution on 
 the budget for fiscal year 2016; waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) 
   of rule XIII with respect to consideration of certain resolutions 
 reported from the Committee on Rules; and providing for consideration 
                    of motions to suspend the rules.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 21, 2015

   Mr. Woodall, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3762) to provide for 
reconciliation pursuant to section 2002 of the concurrent resolution on 
 the budget for fiscal year 2016; waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) 
   of rule XIII with respect to consideration of certain resolutions 
 reported from the Committee on Rules; and providing for consideration 
                    of motions to suspend the rules.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3762) to provide for 
reconciliation pursuant to section 2002 of the concurrent resolution on 
the budget for fiscal year 2016. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, 
are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) two hours of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on the Budget or their respective designees; and (2) 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-
thirds vote to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the 
same day it is presented to the House is waived with respect to any 
resolution reported through the legislative day of October 23, 2015.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of 
October 22, 2015, or October 23, 2015, for the Speaker to entertain 
motions that the House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of 
rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall consult with the Minority 
Leader or her designee on the designation of any matter for 
consideration pursuant to this section.
                                                  House Calendar No. 68

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 483

                          [Report No. 114-303]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3762) to provide for 
reconciliation pursuant to section 2002 of the concurrent resolution on 
 the budget for fiscal year 2016; waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) 
   of rule XIII with respect to consideration of certain resolutions 
 reported from the Committee on Rules; and providing for consideration 
                    of motions to suspend the rules.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 21, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
