[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2282 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2282

  To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize the C.W. Bill 
    Young Cell Transplantation Program and the National Cord Blood 
                   Inventory, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 16, 2015

Mr. Hatch (for himself, Mr. Reed, Mr. Burr, and Mr. Franken) introduced 
the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee 
               on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize the C.W. Bill 
    Young Cell Transplantation Program and the National Cord Blood 
                   Inventory, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research 
Reauthorization Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF THE C.W. BILL YOUNG CELL TRANSPLANTATION 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 379(d)(2)(B) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 274k(d)(2)(B)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``remote collection'' and inserting 
        ``collection''; and
            (2) by inserting ``including remote collection,'' after 
        ``cord blood units,''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 379B of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 274m) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2011 
        through 2014 and''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2016 through 2020'' before the period at the end.
    (c) Secretary Review on State of Science.--The Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, in consultation with the Director of the National 
Institutes of Health, the Commissioner of the Food and Drug 
Administration, and the Administrator of the Health Resources and 
Services Administration, including the Advisory Council on Blood Stem 
Cell Transplantation established under section 379(a) of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 274k(a)), and other stakeholders, where 
appropriate given relevant expertise, shall conduct a review of the 
state of the science of using adult stem cells and birthing tissues to 
develop new types of therapies for patients, for the purpose of 
considering the potential inclusion of such new types of therapies in 
the C.W. Bill Young Cell Transplantation Program (established under 
such section 379) in addition to the continuation of ongoing 
activities. Not later than June 30, 2019, the Secretary shall submit to 
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate 
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives recommendations on the appropriateness of such new 
types of therapies for inclusion in the C.W. Bill Young Cell 
Transplantation Program.

SEC. 3. CORD BLOOD INVENTORY.

    Section 2 of the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 274k note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``one-time'';
            (2) by striking subsection (c);
            (3) by redesignating subsections (d) through (h) as 
        subsections (c) through (g), respectively;
            (4) in subsection (d) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraphs (2) 
                and (3)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (2), (3), and 
                (4)'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``subsection 
                (d)'' and inserting ``subsection (c)''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Consideration of best science.--The Secretary shall 
        take into consideration the best scientific information 
        available in order to maximize the number of cord blood units 
        available for transplant when entering into contracts under 
        this section, or when extending a period of funding under such 
        a contract under paragraph (2).
            ``(5) Consideration of banked units of cord blood.--In 
        extending contracts pursuant to paragraph (3), and determining 
        new allocation amounts for the next contract period or contract 
        extension for such cord blood bank, the Secretary shall take 
        into account the number of cord blood units banked in the 
        National Cord Blood Inventory by a cord blood bank during the 
        previous contract period, in addition to consideration of the 
        ability of such cord blood bank to increase the collection and 
        maintenance of additional, genetically diverse cord blood 
        units.'';
            (5) in subsection (f) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (4); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as 
                paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
            (6) in subsection (g) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``$23,000,000 for each of 
                        fiscal years 2011 through 2014 and''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and $23,000,000 for 
                        each of fiscal years 2016 through 2020'' before 
                        the period at the end; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2).

SEC. 4. DETERMINATION ON THE DEFINITION OF HUMAN ORGAN.

    Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue determinations 
with respect to the inclusion of peripheral blood stem cells and 
umbilical cord blood in the definition of human organ.
                                 <all>
