[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3419 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3419

   To authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make grants to 
  eligible educational institutions to provide child care services on 
                                campus.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 29, 2015

    Ms. Titus (for herself, Mr. Takano, and Miss Rice of New York) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                           Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make grants to 
  eligible educational institutions to provide child care services on 
                                campus.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Support for Student Veterans with 
Families Act''.

SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS GRANTS TO EDUCATIONAL 
              INSTITUTIONS FOR PROVISION OF CHILD CARE SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 36 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 3699. Grants to educational institutions for provision of child 
              care services
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may make a grant to an eligible 
educational institution for the purpose of providing child care 
services on the campus of the educational institution to students 
enrolled in courses of education offered by the educational 
institution.
    ``(b) Eligible Educational Institution.--To be eligible for a grant 
under this section, an educational institution shall--
            ``(1) offer a course of education that is approved as 
        provided in this chapter and chapters 34 and 35 of this title 
        by the State approving agency where the educational institution 
        is located; and
            ``(2) submit to the Secretary an application containing 
        such information and assurances as the Secretary may require.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--(1) An educational institution that receives a 
grant under this section shall use the grant to--
            ``(A) establish or expand a child care center on the campus 
        of the educational institution; or
            ``(B) pay the costs of providing child care services to 
        students enrolled in courses of education offered by the 
        educational institution at a child care center located on the 
        campus of the educational institution.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall require, as a condition of a grant under 
this section, that the educational institution that receives the grant 
provides at least 75 percent of the new child care services funded by 
the grant to students who are veterans.
    ``(d) Limitation.--The Secretary may not make more than 50 grants 
under this section for fiscal year 2016.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this 
section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting at the end of the items relating 
to subchapter II the following new item:

``3699. Grants to educational institutions for provision of child care 
                            services.''.
                                 <all>
