[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.J. Res. 105 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. J. RES. 105

  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to 
treat Puerto Rico as if it were a State for purposes of the election of 
                   the President and Vice President.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 2, 2016

    Mr. Grayson submitted the following joint resolution; which was 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to 
treat Puerto Rico as if it were a State for purposes of the election of 
                   the President and Vice President.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled   (two-thirds of each House 
concurring therein), That the following article is proposed as an 
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall be 
valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when 
ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States:

                              ``Article--

    ``Section 1. The government of Puerto Rico shall appoint, in such 
manner as the legislature of Puerto Rico may elect, a number of 
electors of President and Vice President equal to the whole number of 
Senators and Representatives in Congress to which Puerto Rico would be 
entitled if it were a state; they shall be in addition to those 
appointed by the states, but they shall be considered, for the purposes 
of the election of President and Vice President, to be electors 
appointed by a state; and they shall meet in Puerto Rico and perform 
such duties as provided by the twelfth article of amendment, or as 
otherwise prescribed in this Constitution.
    ``Section 2. Section 1 of this article shall apply to an election 
only if, at the time of the election, Puerto Rico is not a State of the 
United States or an independent nation.
    ``Section 3. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article 
by appropriate legislation.''.
                                 <all>
