[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5471 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

<DOC>
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5471


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 20, 2016

Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To combat terrorist recruitment in the United States, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Countering 
Terrorist Radicalization Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
          TITLE I--AMPLIFYING LOCAL EFFORTS TO ROOT OUT TERROR

Sec. 101. Countering violent extremism training.
Sec. 102. Countering violent extremism assessment.
Sec. 103. Department-sponsored clearances.
Sec. 104. Definitions.
           TITLE II--COUNTERMESSAGING TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS

Sec. 201. Directive.
               TITLE III--COUNTERTERRORISM ADVISORY BOARD

Sec. 301. Department of Homeland Security Counterterrorism Advisory 
                            Board.
                  TITLE IV--PROHIBITION ON NEW FUNDING

Sec. 401. Prohibition on new funding.

          TITLE I--AMPLIFYING LOCAL EFFORTS TO ROOT OUT TERROR

SEC. 101. COUNTERING VIOLENT EXTREMISM TRAINING.

    (a) Authorization of Training.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
is authorized to provide training for personnel, including Department 
of Homeland Security personnel, State, local, tribal, and territorial 
representatives at State and major urban area fusion centers for the 
purpose of administering community awareness briefings and related 
activities in furtherance of the Department's efforts to counter 
violent extremism, identify and report suspicious activities, and 
increase awareness of and more quickly identify terrorism threats, 
including the travel or attempted travel of individuals from the United 
States to support a foreign terrorist organization (as such term is 
described in section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1189)) abroad.
    (b) Coordination.--To the extent practicable, in providing the 
training under subsection (a), the Secretary shall coordinate with the 
heads of other Federal agencies engaged in community outreach related 
to countering violent extremism and shall also coordinate with such 
agencies in the administration of related activities, including 
community awareness briefings.

SEC. 102. COUNTERING VIOLENT EXTREMISM ASSESSMENT.

    (a) Assessment Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
consultation with appropriate State, local, tribal, and territorial 
representatives, shall assess the efforts of the Department of Homeland 
Security to support countering violent extremism at the State, local, 
tribal, and territorial levels. Such assessment shall include each of 
the following:
            (1) A cataloging of departmental efforts to assist State, 
        local, tribal, and territorial governments in countering 
        violent extremism.
            (2) A review of cooperative agreements between the 
        Department and such governments relating to countering violent 
        extremism.
            (3) An evaluation of departmental plans and any potential 
        opportunities to better support such governments that are in 
        furtherance of the Department's countering violent extremism 
        objectives and are consistent with all relevant constitutional, 
        legal, and privacy protections.
    (b) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 150 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act and consistent with the protection of 
classified information, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit 
to the appropriate congressional committees the findings of the 
assessment required under subsection (a) together with any related 
information regarding best practices for countering violent extremism 
at the State, local, tribal, and territorial levels.

SEC. 103. DEPARTMENT-SPONSORED CLEARANCES.

    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify the appropriate 
congressional committees of the number of employees of State, local, 
tribal, and territorial governments with security clearances sponsored 
by the Department of Homeland Security. Such notification shall include 
a detailed list of the agencies that employ such employees, the level 
of clearance held by such employees, and whether such employees are 
assigned as representatives to State and major urban area fusion 
centers.

SEC. 104. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and the 
                Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs and the Select Committee on 
                Intelligence of the Senate.
            (2) The term ``violent extremism'' means ideologically 
        motivated international terrorism or domestic terrorism, as 
        such terms are defined in section 2331 of title 18, United 
        States Code.

           TITLE II--COUNTERMESSAGING TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS

SEC. 201. DIRECTIVE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
incorporate, to the extent practicable, into Department of Homeland 
Security efforts to combat terrorist recruitment and communications the 
public testimonials of former violent extremists or their associates, 
including friends and family. Such efforts may include the following:
            (1) Countermessaging of foreign terrorist organization 
        communications and narratives.
            (2) Related community engagement and public education 
        efforts.
    (b) Coordination.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall, where 
appropriate, coordinate the efforts described in subsection (a) with 
the heads of other Federal departments and agencies, as appropriate, 
and, to the extent practicable, engage nongovernmental and 
international partners in the identification and use of testimonials 
described in such subsection.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to collect testimonials 
directly from former violent extremists or their associates, including 
friends and family.

               TITLE III--COUNTERTERRORISM ADVISORY BOARD

SEC. 301. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY COUNTERTERRORISM ADVISORY 
              BOARD.

    (a) In General.--At the end of subtitle A of title II of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.) insert the 
following new section:

``SEC. 210G. DEPARTMENTAL COORDINATION ON COUNTERTERRORISM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is in the Department a board to be 
composed of senior representatives of departmental operational 
components and headquarters elements. The purpose of the board shall be 
to coordinate and integrate departmental intelligence, activities, and 
policy related to the counterterrorism mission and functions of the 
Department.
    ``(b) Charter.--There shall be a charter to govern the structure 
and mission of the board. Such charter shall direct the board to focus 
on the current threat environment and the importance of aligning 
departmental counterterrorism activities under the Secretary's 
guidance. The charter shall be reviewed and updated every 4 years, as 
appropriate.
    ``(c) Members.--
            ``(1) Chair.--The Secretary shall appoint a Coordinator for 
        Counterterrorism within the Department who will serve as the 
        chair of the board.
            ``(2) Additional members.--The Secretary shall appoint 
        additional members of the board from among the following:
                    ``(A) The Transportation Security Administration.
                    ``(B) United States Customs and Border Protection.
                    ``(C) United States Immigration and Customs 
                Enforcement.
                    ``(D) The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
                    ``(E) The Coast Guard.
                    ``(F) United States Citizenship and Immigration 
                Services.
                    ``(G) The United States Secret Service.
                    ``(H) The National Protection and Programs 
                Directorate.
                    ``(I) The Office of Operations Coordination.
                    ``(J) The Office of the General Counsel.
                    ``(K) The Office of Intelligence and Analysis.
                    ``(L) The Office of Policy.
                    ``(M) The Science and Technology Directorate.
                    ``(N) Other Departmental offices and programs as 
                determined appropriate by the Secretary.
    ``(d) Meetings.--The board shall meet on a regular basis to discuss 
intelligence and coordinate ongoing threat mitigation efforts and 
departmental activities, including coordination with other Federal, 
State, local, tribal, territorial, and private sector partners, and 
shall make recommendations to the Secretary.
    ``(e) Terrorism Alerts.--The board shall advise the Secretary on 
the issuance of terrorism alerts pursuant to section 203 of this Act.
    ``(f) Prohibition on Additional Funds.--No additional funds are 
authorized to carry out this section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
210F the following new item:

``Sec. 210G. Departmental coordination on counterterrorism.''.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary, acting through the Coordinator for 
Counterterrorism, shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the status and 
activities of the board established under section 210G of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, as added by subsection (a).

                  TITLE IV--PROHIBITION ON NEW FUNDING

SEC. 401. PROHIBITION ON NEW FUNDING.

    No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this Act or the amendments made by this Act.

            Passed the House of Representatives June 16, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
