[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2585 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2585

  To amend title II of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five-
month waiting period in the disability insurance program, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 1, 2015

 Mr. Israel (for himself and Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                             Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title II of the Social Security Act to eliminate the five-
month waiting period in the disability insurance program, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sanchez-Young Social Security 
Disability Insurance for the Terminally Ill Act''.

SEC. 2. ELIMINATION OF TITLE II WAITING PERIOD FOR TERMINALLY ILL 
              INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 223(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 423(a)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ``In the case of any application for disability insurance 
benefits filed by an individual who is determined to be under a 
disability and who is determined to be terminally ill by a primary care 
provider (as defined by the individual's State of residence), medical 
specialist, or other qualified provider or with respect to whom the 
Commissioner has determined would otherwise suffer undue hardship by 
application of a waiting period, this paragraph shall be applied 
without regard to any waiting period. For the purposes of the preceding 
sentence, an individual is considered to be terminally ill if the 
individual has a medical prognosis that the individual's life 
expectancy is 12 months or less.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect with respect to applications filed after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
