[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3223 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3223

 To increase funding to reduce opioid use disorders and overdose, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 14, 2016

   Mrs. Murray (for herself, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Leahy, and Mrs. Shaheen) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To increase funding to reduce opioid use disorders and overdose, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Expanded Access to Treatment and 
Recovery Act''.

SEC. 2. OPIOID USE DISORDER AND OVERDOSE FUNDING.

    (a) Funding.--There are authorized to be appropriated, and are 
appropriated, out of monies in the Treasury not otherwise obligated, 
$920,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2017 and 2018, to reduce 
opioid use disorders and overdose, to be made available in accordance 
with this Act.
    (b) State Targeted Response Cooperative Agreements.--Subpart 1 of 
part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb et 
seq.) is amended by inserting after section 509 the following:

``SEC. 510. STATE TARGETED RESPONSE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall enter into additional 
targeted response cooperative agreements with States under this title 
to expand opioid use disorder treatment capacity and make services more 
affordable to those who cannot afford such services.
    ``(b) Awarding of Funding.--The Secretary shall allocate funding to 
States under this section based on--
            ``(1) the severity of the opioid epidemic in the State; and
            ``(2) the strength of the strategy of the State to respond 
        to such epidemic.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--Amounts received by a State under this section 
shall be used to expand treatment capacity and make services more 
affordable to those who cannot afford such services and to help 
individuals seek treatment, successfully complete treatment, and 
sustain recovery.
    ``(d) Funding.--From amounts appropriated under section 2(a) of the 
Expanded Access to Treatment and Recovery Act, there shall be made 
available to carry out this section, $460,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 and 2018.''.
                                 <all>
