[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1664 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1664

  To authorize health insurance issuers to continue to offer for sale 
current group and individual health insurance coverage in satisfaction 
of the minimum essential health insurance coverage requirement, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 26, 2015

Mr. Culberson introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
   Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To authorize health insurance issuers to continue to offer for sale 
current group and individual health insurance coverage in satisfaction 
of the minimum essential health insurance coverage requirement, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Health Insurance Freedom Act of 
2015''.

SEC. 2. IF YOU LIKE YOUR HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN, YOU CAN KEEP IT.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any provision of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act (including any amendment made by 
such Act or by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 
2010), in the case of an electing State under subsection (c), a health 
insurance issuer that has in effect health insurance coverage in the 
group or individual market in such State on any date during 2013 may 
after such date offer such coverage for sale in such market in such 
State outside of an Exchange established under section 1311 or 1321 of 
such Act (42 U.S.C. 18031, 18041). A group health plan shall not be 
treated as not complying with the requirements of such Act (or the 
amendments made by such Acts) insofar as it provides health benefits 
through health insurance coverage that is permitted under the previous 
sentence.
    (b) Treatment as Grandfathered Health Plan in Satisfaction of 
Minimum Essential Coverage.--In the case of an electing State under 
subsection (c), health insurance coverage described in subsection (a) 
shall be treated as a grandfathered health plan for purposes of the 
amendment made by section 1501(b) of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act.
    (c) Electing State.--A State insurance commissioner may, in such 
manner and at such time as specified by the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, elect to apply the provisions of this section with 
respect to health insurance coverage offered in the group or individual 
market in such State. In this section, a State with respect to which 
such an election is made is referred to as an electing State.
    (d) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed as 
affecting the authority of States with respect to the regulation of 
health insurance coverage in the group or individual market.
                                 <all>
