[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4892 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4892

 To amend title 38, United States Code, to pay special compensation to 
   certain veterans with the loss or loss of use of creative organs.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 11, 2016

Mr. Miller of Florida introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                 to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 38, United States Code, to pay special compensation to 
   certain veterans with the loss or loss of use of creative organs.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SPECIAL COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OR LOSS OF USE OF CREATIVE 
              ORGANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1114 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(u)(1) Subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary shall pay to a 
covered veteran two lump-sum special compensation payments each in the 
amount of $10,000. The second such payment may not occur less than one 
year after the date of the first such payment.
    ``(2) Special compensation paid to a covered veteran under 
paragraph (1) is in addition to disability compensation paid to the 
veteran pursuant to subsection (k), except that in any month in which 
the veteran receives a payment of such special compensation, the 
veteran may not also receive such disability compensation pursuant to 
subsection (k).
    ``(3) A covered veteran shall submit to the Secretary a separate, 
specific application for each payment of special compensation paid 
under paragraph (1) in such form and in such manner as the Secretary 
considers appropriate.
    ``(4) In this subsection, the term `covered veteran' means a 
veteran who is paid disability compensation pursuant to subsection (k) 
for--
            ``(A) the anatomical loss of one or more creative organs; 
        or
            ``(B) the permanent or static loss of use of one or more 
        creative organs.''.
    (b) Application.--Subsection (u) of section 1114 of title 38, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with 
respect to a veteran who receives disability compensation on or after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
