[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3049 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 153
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3049

                          [Report No. 114-205]

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 14, 2015

   Mr. Aderholt, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
following bill; which was committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2016, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Production, Processing and Marketing

                        Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $39,379,000, 
of which not to exceed $5,051,000 shall be available for the Immediate 
Office of the Secretary; not to exceed $498,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Tribal Relations; not to exceed $1,496,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Homeland Security and Emergency 
Coordination; not to exceed $1,209,000 shall be available for the 
Office of Advocacy and Outreach; not to exceed $23,590,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, 
of which $22,786,000 shall be available for Departmental Administration 
to provide for necessary expenses for management support services to 
offices of the Department and for general administration, security, 
repairs and alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies and expenses 
not otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical and 
efficient work of the Department; not to exceed $3,064,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Assistant Secretary for Congressional 
Relations to carry out the programs funded by this Act, including 
programs involving intergovernmental affairs and liaison within the 
executive branch; and not to exceed $4,471,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Communications: Provided, That the Secretary of 
Agriculture is authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office 
of the Office of the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the 
Secretary: Provided further, That no appropriation for any office shall 
be increased or decreased by more than 5 percent: Provided further, 
That not to exceed $11,000 of the amount made available under this 
paragraph for the immediate Office of the Secretary shall be available 
for official reception and representation expenses, not otherwise 
provided for, as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, That 
the amount made available under this heading for Departmental 
Administration shall be reimbursed from applicable appropriations in 
this Act for travel expenses incident to the holding of hearings as 
required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558: Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading for the Office of the Assistant Secretary 
for Congressional Relations may be transferred to agencies of the 
Department of Agriculture funded by this Act to maintain personnel at 
the agency level: Provided further, That no funds made available under 
this heading for the Office of Assistant Secretary for Congressional 
Relations may be obligated after 30 days from the date of enactment of 
this Act, unless the Secretary has notified the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress on the allocation of these 
funds by USDA agency.

                          Executive Operations

                     office of the chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Economist, 
$16,777,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be for grants or cooperative 
agreements for policy research under 7 U.S.C. 3155.

                       national appeals division

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, 
$12,841,000.

                 office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
Analysis, $9,081,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $44,031,000, of which not less than $27,000,000 is for 
cybersecurity requirements of the Department.

                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer, $6,028,000.

           Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Civil Rights, $893,000.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $23,871,000.

                  Agriculture Buildings and Facilities

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
Law 92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 121, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for alterations and 
other actions needed for the Department and its agencies to consolidate 
unneeded space into configurations suitable for release to the 
Administrator of General Services, and for the operation, maintenance, 
improvement, and repair of Agriculture buildings and facilities, and 
for related costs, $54,730,000, to remain available until expended, for 
buildings operations and maintenance expenses: Provided, That the 
Secretary may use unobligated prior year balances of an agency or 
office that are no longer available for new obligation for the sole 
purpose of covering shortfalls incurred in prior or current year rental 
payments for such agency or office.

                     Hazardous Materials Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and the Resource Conservation 
and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $3,600,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That appropriations and funds 
available herein to the Department for Hazardous Materials Management 
may be transferred to any agency of the Department for its use in 
meeting all requirements pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-
Federal lands.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$95,643,000, including such sums as may be necessary for contracting 
and other arrangements with public agencies and private persons 
pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, and 
including not to exceed $125,000 for certain confidential operational 
expenses, including the payment of informants, to be expended under the 
direction of the Inspector General pursuant to Public Law 95-452 and 
section 1337 of Public Law 97-98.

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$43,313,000.

                            Office of Ethics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Ethics, $3,440,000.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Research, Education, and Economics, $893,000.

                       Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service, 
$78,058,000.

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service, $161,206,000, of which up to $44,525,000 shall be available 
until expended for the Census of Agriculture: Provided, That amounts 
made available for the Census of Agriculture may be used to conduct 
Current Industrial Report surveys subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and (f).

                     Agricultural Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Research Service and for 
acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal 
cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges where the lands 
exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized by a payment of 
money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal ownership, 
$1,122,454,000: Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the 
purchase of not to exceed one for replacement only: Provided further, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of constructing 
any one building shall not exceed $375,000, except for headhouses or 
greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,200,000, and except for 
10 buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed 
$750,000 each, and the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building or $375,000, whichever is greater: Provided 
further, That the limitations on alterations contained in this Act 
shall not apply to modernization or replacement of existing facilities 
at Beltsville, Maryland: Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available for granting easements at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center: Provided further, That the foregoing 
limitations shall not apply to replacement of buildings needed to carry 
out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Provided further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting easements at 
any Agricultural Research Service location for the construction of a 
research facility by a non-Federal entity for use by, and acceptable 
to, the Agricultural Research Service and a condition of the easements 
shall be that upon completion the facility shall be accepted by the 
Secretary, subject to the availability of funds herein, if the 
Secretary finds that acceptance of the facility is in the interest of 
the United States: Provided further, That funds may be received from 
any State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for 
the purpose of establishing or operating any research facility or 
research project of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by 
law: Provided further, That of the appropriations hereunder, 
$56,123,000 may not be obligated until thirty days after the Secretary 
of Agriculture certifies in writing to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress that the Agricultural Research Service has 
updated its animal care policies and that all Agricultural Research 
Service research facilities at which animal research is conducted have 
a fully functioning Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee, 
including all appropriate and necessary record keeping: Provided 
further, That such certification shall set forth in detail the factual 
basis for the certification and the Department's plan for ensuring 
these changes are maintained in the future: Provided further, That such 
certification shall be subject to prior consultation with the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                        buildings and facilities

    For the acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $45,000,000 to 
remain available until expended.

               National Institute of Food and Agriculture

                   research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
$781,510,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, 
specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture, Research and Education Activities'' in the report 
accompanying this Act: Provided, That funds for research grants for 
1994 institutions, education grants for 1890 institutions, the 
agriculture and food research initiative, veterinary medicine loan 
repayment, multicultural scholars, graduate fellowship and institution 
challenge grants, and grants management systems shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That each institution eligible to 
receive funds under the Evans-Allen program receives no less than 
$1,000,000:  Provided further, That funds for education grants for 
Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serving institutions be made 
available to individual eligible institutions or consortia of eligible 
institutions with funds awarded equally to each of the States of Alaska 
and Hawaii:  Provided further, That funds for education grants for 1890 
institutions shall be made available to institutions eligible to 
receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 and 3222:  Provided further, That not 
more than 5 percent of the amounts made available by this or any other 
Act to carry out the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 
U.S.C. 450i(b) may be retained by the Secretary of Agriculture to pay 
administrative costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out that 
authority.

              native american institutions endowment fund

    For the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund authorized by 
Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          extension activities

    For payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, 
Guam, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas, and 
American Samoa, $472,051,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in 
the amounts, specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food 
and Agriculture, Extension Activities'' in the report accompanying this 
Act: Provided, That funds for facility improvements at 1890 
institutions shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 for 
cooperative extension receive no less than $1,000,000:  Provided 
further, That funds for cooperative extension under sections 3(b) and 
(c) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c)) and section 208(c) 
of Public Law 93-471 shall be available for retirement and employees' 
compensation costs for extension agents.

                         integrated activities

    For the integrated research, education, and extension grants 
programs, including necessary administrative expenses, $30,900,000, 
which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the 
table titled ``National Institute of Food and Agriculture, Integrated 
Activities'' in the report accompanying this Act: Provided, That funds 
for the Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative shall remain available 
until September 30, 2017.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Marketing and Regulatory Programs, $893,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service, including up to $30,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085), 
$870,945,000, of which $470,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and birds 
(``contingency fund'') to the extent necessary to meet emergency 
conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be used for the cotton pests program for cost share purposes or 
for debt retirement for active eradication zones; of which $35,000,000, 
to remain available until expended, shall be for Animal Health 
Technical Services; of which $697,000 shall be for activities under the 
authority of the Horse Protection Act of 1970, as amended (15 U.S.C. 
1831); of which $55,340,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
be used to support avian health; of which $4,251,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for information technology 
infrastructure; of which $158,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for specialty crop pests; of which, $8,826,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for field crop and rangeland 
ecosystem pests; of which $45,519,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for tree and wood pests; of which $3,973,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for the National Veterinary 
Stockpile; of which up to $1,500,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for the scrapie program for indemnities; of which 
$1,500,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for the 
wildlife damage management program for aviation safety: Provided, That 
of amounts available under this heading for wildlife services methods 
development, $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That of amounts available under this heading for the screwworm 
program, $4,990,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That no funds shall be used to formulate or administer a 
brucellosis eradication program for the current fiscal year that does 
not require minimum matching by the States of at least 40 percent: 
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for the 
operation and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed 
four, of which two shall be for replacement only: Provided further, 
That in addition, in emergencies which threaten any segment of the 
agricultural production industry of this country, the Secretary may 
transfer from other appropriations or funds available to the agencies 
or corporations of the Department such sums as may be deemed necessary, 
to be available only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication 
of contagious or infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or 
plants, and for expenses in accordance with sections 10411 and 10417 of 
the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and sections 
431 and 442 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and 
any unexpended balances of funds transferred for such emergency 
purposes in the preceding fiscal year shall be merged with such 
transferred amounts: Provided further, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and 
alteration of leased buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise 
provided the cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year 
shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the 
building.
    In fiscal year 2016, the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic 
and international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, 
or services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall 
be reimbursed to this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $3,175,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Marketing Service, 
$80,743,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall be available 
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of 
buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, 
as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $60,982,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c), shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers otherwise provided in 
this Act; and (3) not more than $20,186,000 for formulation and 
administration of marketing agreements and orders pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the Agricultural Act 
of 1961.

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,235,000.

        Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Grain Inspection, Packers and 
Stockyards Administration, $43,048,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

        limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

    Not to exceed $55,000,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional 
supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

             Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food Safety, $811,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, including not to exceed $50,000 for 
representation allowances and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the 
Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,011,557,000; and in 
addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this account from fees 
collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as authorized by 
section 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f): Provided, That funds provided for the Public 
Health Data Communication Infrastructure system shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That no fewer than 148 full-time 
equivalent positions shall be employed during fiscal year 2016 for 
purposes dedicated solely to inspections and enforcement related to the 
Humane Methods of Slaughter Act: Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

    Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural 
                                Services

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, $893,000.

                          Farm Service Agency

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Farm Service Agency, $1,183,025,000: 
Provided, That not more than 50 percent of the $129,546,000 made 
available under this heading for information technology related to farm 
program delivery, including the Modernize and Innovate the Delivery of 
Agricultural Systems and other farm program delivery systems, may be 
obligated until the Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a plan for expenditure that 
(1) identifies for each project/investment over $25,000 (a) the 
functional and performance capabilities to be delivered and the mission 
benefits to be realized, (b) the estimated lifecycle cost, including 
estimates for development as well as maintenance and operations, and 
(c) key milestones to be met; (2) demonstrates that each project/
investment is, (a) consistent with the Farm Service Agency Information 
Technology Roadmap, (b) being managed in accordance with applicable 
lifecycle management policies and guidance, and (c) subject to the 
applicable Department's capital planning and investment control 
requirements; and (3) has been reviewed by the Government 
Accountability Office and approved by the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress: Provided further, That the Secretary is 
authorized to use the services, facilities, and authorities (but not 
the funds) of the Commodity Credit Corporation to make program payments 
for all programs administered by the Agency: Provided further, That 
other funds made available to the Agency for authorized activities may 
be advanced to and merged with this account: Provided further, That 
funds made available to county committees shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That none of the funds available to the 
Farm Service Agency shall be used to close Farm Service Agency county 
offices: Provided further, That none of the funds available to the Farm 
Service Agency shall be used to permanently relocate county based 
employees that would result in an office with two or fewer employees 
without prior notification and approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit 
Act of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $3,404,000.

               grassroots source water protection program

    For necessary expenses to carry out wellhead or groundwater 
protection activities under section 1240O of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2), $5,526,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                        dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products under a dairy 
indemnity program, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That such program is carried out by the 
Secretary in the same manner as the dairy indemnity program described 
in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-387, 114 
Stat. 1549A-12).

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7 
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7 U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), 
Indian tribe land acquisition loans (25 U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans 
(7 U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed conservation loans (7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), 
and Indian highly fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be 
available from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as 
follows: $2,000,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership loans and 
$1,500,000,000 for farm ownership direct loans; $1,393,443,000 for 
unsubsidized guaranteed operating loans and $1,252,004,000 for direct 
operating loans; emergency loans, $34,667,000; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans, $2,000,000; guaranteed conservation loans, 
$150,000,000; Indian highly fractionated land loans, $10,000,000; and 
for boll weevil eradication program loans, $60,000,000: Provided, That 
the Secretary shall deem the pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the 
purpose of boll weevil eradication program loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans and grants, including 
the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: farm operating loans, 
$53,961,000 for direct operating loans, $14,352,000 for unsubsidized 
guaranteed operating loans, and emergency loans, $1,262,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $314,918,000, of which 
$306,998,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.
    Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
Program Account for farm ownership, operating and conservation direct 
loans and guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs: 
Provided, That the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.

                         Risk Management Agency

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Risk Management Agency, $73,984,000: 
Provided, That not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
1506(i).

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1516), such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended.

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                 reimbursement for net realized losses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary to 
reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses 
sustained, but not previously reimbursed, pursuant to section 2 of the 
Act of August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11): Provided, That of the funds 
available to the Commodity Credit Corporation under section 11 of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for the 
conduct of its business with the Foreign Agricultural Service, up to 
$5,000,000 may be transferred to and used by the Foreign Agricultural 
Service for information resource management activities of the Foreign 
Agricultural Service that are not related to Commodity Credit 
Corporation business.

                       hazardous waste management

                        (limitation on expenses)

    For the current fiscal year, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall 
not expend more than $5,000,000 for site investigation and cleanup 
expenses, and operations and maintenance expenses to comply with the 
requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and 
section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 
6961).

                                TITLE II

                         CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

  Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Natural Resources and Environment, $893,000.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                        conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act 
of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$832,928,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017: Provided, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for construction and improvement of buildings and public 
improvements at plant materials centers, except that the cost of 
alterations and improvements to other buildings and other public 
improvements shall not exceed $250,000: Provided further, That when 
buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal land, that the 
right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a.

                    watershed rehabilitation program

    Under the authorities of section 14 of the Watershed Protection and 
Flood Prevention Act, $6,000,000 is provided.

                               TITLE III

                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

          Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Rural Development, $893,000.

                Rural Development Salaries and Expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs in the Rural Development mission area, 
including activities with institutions concerning the development and 
operation of agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; 
$222,705,000: Provided, That no less than $19,500,000 shall be for the 
Comprehensive Loan Accounting System: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated under 
this heading may be used for advertising and promotional activities 
that support the Rural Development mission area: Provided further, That 
any balances available from prior years for the Rural Utilities 
Service, Rural Housing Service, and the Rural Business-Cooperative 
Service salaries and expenses accounts shall be transferred to and 
merged with this appropriation.

                         Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, 
to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as 
follows: $900,000,000 shall be for direct loans and $24,000,000,000 
shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $26,278,000 for section 504 
housing repair loans; $28,398,000 for section 515 rental housing; 
$150,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed multi-family housing loans; 
$10,000,000 for credit sales of single family housing acquired 
property; $5,000,000 for section 523 self-help housing land development 
loans; and $5,000,000 for section 524 site development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $60,750,000 shall be for 
direct loans; section 504 housing repair loans, $3,424,000; and repair, 
rehabilitation, and new construction of section 515 rental housing, 
$8,414,000: Provided, That to support the loan program level for 
section 538 guaranteed loans made available under this heading the 
Secretary may charge or adjust any fees to cover the projected cost of 
such loan guarantees pursuant to the provisions of the Credit Reform 
Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.), and the interest on such loans may 
not be subsidized: Provided further, That applicants in communities 
that have a current rural area waiver under section 541 of the Housing 
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q) shall be treated as living in a rural 
area for purposes of section 502 guaranteed loans provided under this 
heading: Provided further, That of the amounts available under this 
paragraph for section 502 direct loans, no less than $5,000,000 shall 
be available for direct loans for individuals whose homes will be built 
pursuant to a program funded with a mutual and self-help housing grant 
authorized by section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949 until June 1, 
2016.
    In addition, for the cost of direct loans, grants, and contracts, 
as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1484 and 1486, $15,125,000, to remain 
available until expended, for direct farm labor housing loans and 
domestic farm labor housing grants and contracts: Provided, That any 
balances available for the Farm Labor Program Account shall be 
transferred to and merged with this account.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $417,854,000 shall be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries 
and Expenses''.

                       rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant 
to the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in 
lieu of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, 
$1,167,000,000; and, in addition, such sums as may be necessary, as 
authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred 
prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the rental assistance program 
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided, That rental assistance 
agreements entered into or renewed during the current fiscal year shall 
be funded for a one-year period: Provided further, That rental 
assistance contracts will not be renewed within the 12-month contract 
period: Provided further, That any unexpended balances remaining at the 
end of such 1-year agreements may be transferred and used for the 
purposes of any debt reduction; maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation 
of any existing projects; preservation; and rental assistance 
activities authorized under title V of the Act: Provided further, That 
rental assistance provided under agreements entered into prior to 
fiscal year 2016 for a farm labor multi-family housing project financed 
under section 514 or 516 of the Act may not be recaptured for use in 
another project until such assistance has remained unused for a period 
of 12 consecutive months, if such project has a waiting list of tenants 
seeking such assistance or the project has rental assistance eligible 
tenants who are not receiving such assistance: Provided further, That 
such recaptured rental assistance shall, to the extent practicable, be 
applied to another farm labor multi-family housing project financed 
under section 514 or 516 of the Act.

          multi-family housing revitalization program account

    For the rural housing voucher program as authorized under section 
542 of the Housing Act of 1949, but notwithstanding subsection (b) of 
such section, and for additional costs to conduct a demonstration 
program for the preservation and revitalization of multi-family rental 
housing properties described in this paragraph, $24,000,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, $7,000,000, shall be available for rural housing 
vouchers to any low-income household (including those not receiving 
rental assistance) residing in a property financed with a section 515 
loan which has been prepaid after September 30, 2005: Provided further, 
That the amount of such voucher shall be the difference between 
comparable market rent for the section 515 unit and the tenant paid 
rent for such unit: Provided further, That funds made available for 
such vouchers shall be subject to the availability of annual 
appropriations: Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, administer such vouchers with current 
regulations and administrative guidance applicable to section 8 housing 
vouchers administered by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development: Provided further, That if the Secretary determines 
that the amount made available for vouchers in this or any other Act is 
not needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use such funds for the 
demonstration program for the preservation and revitalization of multi-
family rental housing properties described in this paragraph: Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$17,000,000 shall be available for a demonstration program for the 
preservation and revitalization of the sections 514, 515, and 516 
multi-family rental housing properties to restructure existing USDA 
multi-family housing loans, as the Secretary deems appropriate, 
expressly for the purposes of ensuring the project has sufficient 
resources to preserve the project for the purpose of providing safe and 
affordable housing for low-income residents and farm laborers including 
reducing or eliminating interest; deferring loan payments, 
subordinating, reducing or reamortizing loan debt; and other financial 
assistance including advances, payments and incentives (including the 
ability of owners to obtain reasonable returns on investment) required 
by the Secretary: Provided further, That the Secretary shall as part of 
the preservation and revitalization agreement obtain a restrictive use 
agreement consistent with the terms of the restructuring: Provided 
further, That if the Secretary determines that additional funds for 
vouchers described in this paragraph are needed, funds for the 
preservation and revitalization demonstration program may be used for 
such vouchers: Provided further, That if Congress enacts legislation to 
permanently authorize a multi-family rental housing loan restructuring 
program similar to the demonstration program described herein, the 
Secretary may use funds made available for the demonstration program 
under this heading to carry out such legislation with the prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress: Provided further, That in addition to any other available 
funds, the Secretary may expend not more than $1,000,000 total, from 
the program funds made available under this heading, for administrative 
expenses for activities funded under this heading.

                  mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $27,500,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                    rural housing assistance grants

    For grants for very low-income housing repair and rural housing 
preservation made by the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $32,239,000, to remain available until 
expended.

               rural community facilities program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by section 306 and described in section 
381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
$2,200,000,000 for direct loans and $148,305,085 for guaranteed loans.
    For the cost of guaranteed loans, including the cost of modifying 
loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, $3,500,000, to remain available until expended.
    For the cost of grants for rural community facilities programs as 
authorized by section 306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $26,778,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That $4,000,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for a Rural 
Community Development Initiative: Provided further, That such funds 
shall be used solely to develop the capacity and ability of private, 
nonprofit community-based housing and community development 
organizations, low-income rural communities, and Federally Recognized 
Native American Tribes to undertake projects to improve housing, 
community facilities, community and economic development projects in 
rural areas: Provided further, That such funds shall be made available 
to qualified private, nonprofit and public intermediary organizations 
proposing to carry out a program of financial and technical assistance: 
Provided further, That such intermediary organizations shall provide 
matching funds from other sources, including Federal funds for related 
activities, in an amount not less than funds provided: Provided 
further, That $5,778,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
shall be to provide grants for facilities in rural communities with 
extreme unemployment and severe economic depression (Public Law 106-
387), with up to 5 percent for administration and capacity building in 
the State rural development offices: Provided further, That $4,000,000 
of the amount appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
community facilities grants to tribal colleges, as authorized by 
section 306(a)(19) of such Act: Provided further, That sections 381E-H 
and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not 
applicable to the funds made available under this heading.

                  Rural Business--Cooperative Service

                     rural business program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of loan guarantees and grants, for the rural business 
development programs authorized by section 310B and described in 
subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 310B of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act, $59,686,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
not to exceed $500,000 shall be made available for one grant to a 
qualified national organization to provide technical assistance for 
rural transportation in order to promote economic development: Provided 
further, That $4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
shall be for business grants to benefit Federally Recognized Native 
American Tribes, including $250,000 for a grant to a qualified national 
organization to provide technical assistance for rural transportation 
in order to promote economic development: Provided further, That for 
purposes of determining eligibility or level of program assistance the 
Secretary shall not include incarcerated prison populations: Provided 
further, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act are not applicable to funds made available under 
this heading.

              intermediary relending program fund account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), 
$18,889,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, $5,217,000, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), of which 
$531,000 shall be available through June 30, 2016, for Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes; and of which $1,021,000 shall be 
available through June 30, 2016, for Mississippi Delta Region counties 
(as determined in accordance with Public Law 100-460): Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $4,410,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$33,077,000.
    Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of credit 
payments, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, $154,000,000 shall not be obligated and $154,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $21,300,000, of which $2,500,000 shall be for cooperative 
agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for rural areas 
program: Provided, That not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be for grants 
for cooperative development centers, individual cooperatives, or groups 
of cooperatives that serve socially disadvantaged groups and a majority 
of the boards of directors or governing boards of which are comprised 
of individuals who are members of socially disadvantaged groups; and of 
which $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
value-added agricultural product market development grants, as 
authorized by section 231 of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 
2000 (7 U.S.C. 1632a).

                    rural energy for america program

    For the cost of a program of loan guarantees, under the same terms 
and conditions as authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107), $842,000: Provided, That 
the cost of loan guarantees, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974.

                        Rural Utilities Service

             rural water and waste disposal program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants for the 
rural water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid waste management 
programs authorized by sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B 
and described in sections 306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $473,897,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the rural utilities program described in section 
306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to exceed $993,000 shall be 
available for the rural utilities program described in section 306E of 
such Act: Provided, That not to exceed $10,000,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be for grants authorized by 
section 306A(i)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act 
in addition to funding authorized by section 306A(i)(1) of such Act: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $54,240,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be for loans and grants including 
water and waste disposal systems grants authorized by section 
306C(a)(2)(B) and section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act, Federally Recognized Native American Tribes authorized 
by 306C(a)(1) of such Act, and the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands 
(of the State of Hawaii): Provided further, That funding provided for 
section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may be 
provided to a consortium formed pursuant to section 325 of Public Law 
105-83: Provided further, That not more than 2 percent of the funding 
provided for section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act may be used by the State of Alaska for training and 
technical assistance programs and not more than 2 percent of the 
funding provided for section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act may be used by a consortium formed pursuant to section 
325 of Public Law 105-83 for training and technical assistance 
programs: Provided further, That not to exceed $19,000,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for technical 
assistance grants for rural water and waste systems pursuant to section 
306(a)(14) of such Act, unless the Secretary makes a determination of 
extreme need, of which $6,000,000 shall be made available for a grant 
to a qualified nonprofit multi-State regional technical assistance 
organization, with experience in working with small communities on 
water and waste water problems, the principal purpose of such grant 
shall be to assist rural communities with populations of 3,300 or less, 
in improving the planning, financing, development, operation, and 
management of water and waste water systems, and of which not less than 
$800,000 shall be for a qualified national Native American organization 
to provide technical assistance for rural water systems for tribal 
communities: Provided further, That not to exceed $15,919,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for contracting with 
qualified national organizations for a circuit rider program to provide 
technical assistance for rural water systems: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid waste management grants: 
Provided further, That any prior year balances for high-energy cost 
grants authorized by section 19 of the Rural Electrification Act of 
1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a) shall be transferred to and merged with the Rural 
Utilities Service, High Energy Cost Grants Account: Provided further, 
That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act are not applicable to the funds made available under 
this heading.

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    The principal amount of direct and guaranteed loans as authorized 
by sections 305 and 306 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 935 and 936) shall be made as follows: loans made pursuant to 
section 306 of that Act, rural electric, $5,000,000,000; guaranteed 
underwriting loans pursuant to section 313A, $500,000,000; 5 percent 
rural telecommunications loans, cost of money rural telecommunications 
loans, and for loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, rural 
telecommunications loans, $690,000,000: Provided, That up to 
$2,000,000,000 shall be used for the construction, acquisition, or 
improvement of fossil-fueled electric generating plants (whether new or 
existing) that utilize carbon sequestration systems.
    For the cost of direct loans as authorized by section 305 of the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, cost of money rural telecommunications loans, $207,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $34,247,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural 
Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

         distance learning, telemedicine, and broadband program

    For the principal amount of broadband telecommunication loans, 
$24,077,000.
    For grants for telemedicine and distance learning services in rural 
areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $20,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    For the cost of broadband loans, as authorized by section 601 of 
the Rural Electrification Act, $5,265,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the cost of direct loans shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, $10,372,000, to remain available until expended, for a 
grant program to finance broadband transmission in rural areas eligible 
for Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program benefits authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 950aaa.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

    Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer 
                                Services

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, $811,000.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Richard B. Russell National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 
17 and 21; $21,507,426,000 to remain available through September 30, 
2017, of which such sums as are made available under section 
14222(b)(1) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-246), as amended by this Act, shall be merged with and 
available for the same time period and purposes as provided herein: 
Provided, That of the total amount available, $17,004,000 shall be 
available to carry out section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.): Provided further, That of the total amount 
available, $20,000,000 shall be available to provide competitive grants 
to State agencies for subgrants to local educational agencies and 
schools to purchase the equipment needed to serve healthier meals, 
improve food safety, and to help support the establishment, 
maintenance, or expansion of the school breakfast program: Provided 
further, That of the total amount available, $12,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended to carry out section 749(g) of the Agriculture 
Appropriations Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-80).

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                 (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $6,484,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2017: Provided, That notwithstanding section 
17(h)(10) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), 
not less than $60,000,000 shall be used for breastfeeding peer 
counselors and other related activities, $14,000,000 shall be used for 
infrastructure, $55,000,000 shall be used for management information 
systems, including WIC electronic benefit transfer systems and 
activities: Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this 
account shall be available for the purchase of infant formula except in 
accordance with the cost containment and competitive bidding 
requirements specified in section 17 of such Act: Provided further, 
That none of the funds provided shall be available for activities that 
are not fully reimbursed by other Federal Government departments or 
agencies unless authorized by section 17 of such Act: Provided further, 
That upon termination of a federally mandated vendor moratorium and 
subject to terms and conditions established by the Secretary, the 
Secretary may waive the requirement at 7 CFR 246.12(g)(6) at the 
request of a State agency.

               supplemental nutrition assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food and Nutrition Act of 
2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), $81,653,207,000, of which $3,000,000,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 2017, shall be placed in 
reserve for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations: Provided, That funds 
provided herein shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the 
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008: Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $998,000 may be used to provide 
nutrition education services to State agencies and Federally Recognized 
Tribes participating in the Food Distribution Program on Indian 
Reservations: Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
subject to any work registration or workfare requirements as may be 
required by law: Provided further, That funds made available for 
Employment and Training under this heading shall remain available 
through September 30, 2017: Provided further, That funds made available 
under this heading for section 28(d)(1) and section 27(a) of the Food 
and Nutrition Act of 2008 shall remain available through September 30, 
2017: Provided further, That, subject to section 735 of this Act, funds 
made available under this heading may be used to enter into contracts 
and employ staff to conduct studies, evaluations, or to conduct 
activities related to program integrity provided that such activities 
are authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out disaster assistance and the 
Commodity Supplemental Food Program as authorized by section 4(a) of 
the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c 
note); the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983; special assistance 
for the nuclear affected islands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of 
the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-
188); and the Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by 
section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, $288,317,000, to 
remain available through September 30, 2017:  Provided, That none of 
these funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for commodities donated to the program: Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective with funds 
made available in fiscal year 2016 to support the Seniors Farmers' 
Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by section 4402 of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, such funds shall remain 
available through September 30, 2017: Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act 
of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use up to 10 percent for 
costs associated with the distribution of commodities.

                   nutrition programs administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Food and Nutrition 
Service for carrying out any domestic nutrition assistance program, 
$141,348,000: Provided, That of the funds provided herein, $2,000,000 
shall be used for the purposes of section 4404 of Public Law 107-171, 
as amended by section 4401 of Public Law 110-246.

                                TITLE V

                FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

                      Foreign Agricultural Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including not to exceed $250,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 
U.S.C. 1766), $184,423,000: Provided, That the Service may utilize 
advances of funds, or reimburse this appropriation for expenditures 
made on behalf of Federal agencies, public and private organizations 
and institutions under agreements executed pursuant to the agricultural 
food production assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the foreign 
assistance programs of the United States Agency for International 
Development: Provided further, That funds made available for middle-
income country training programs, funds made available for the Borlaug 
International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship program, 
and up to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural Service appropriation 
solely for the purpose of offsetting fluctuations in international 
currency exchange rates, subject to documentation by the Foreign 
Agricultural Service, shall remain available until expended.

  food for peace title i direct credit and food for progress program 
                                account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the credit program of 
title I, Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480) and the Food for 
Progress Act of 1985, $2,528,000, shall be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and 
Expenses''.

                     food for peace title ii grants

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad under title 
II of said Act, $1,417,000,000, to remain available until expended.

  mcgovern-dole international food for education and child nutrition 
                             program grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 3107 
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-
1), $191,626,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized to provide the services, 
facilities, and authorities for the purpose of implementing such 
section, subject to reimbursement from amounts provided herein.

 commodity credit corporation export (loans) credit guarantee program 
                                account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's Export Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, 
$6,748,000; to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 
11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity 
with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which $6,394,000 shall 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign 
Agricultural Service, Salaries and Expenses'', and of which $354,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm 
Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                                TITLE VI

           RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                Department of Health and Human Services

                      food and drug administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; for miscellaneous and emergency 
expenses of enforcement activities, authorized and approved by the 
Secretary and to be accounted for solely on the Secretary's 
certificate, not to exceed $25,000; and notwithstanding section 521 of 
Public Law 107-188; $4,549,219,000: Provided, That of the amount 
provided under this heading, $826,072,000 shall be derived from 
prescription drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$134,475,000 shall be derived from medical device user fees authorized 
by 21 U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended; $320,029,000 shall be derived from human 
generic drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-42, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$21,540,000 shall be derived from biosimilar biological product user 
fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-52, and shall be credited to this 
account and remain available until expended; $22,140,000 shall be 
derived from animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-12, and 
shall be credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$7,429,000 shall be derived from animal generic drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-21, and shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended; $599,000,000 shall be derived from 
tobacco product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 387s, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That in addition and notwithstanding any other provision under 
this heading, amounts collected for prescription drug user fees, 
medical device user fees, human generic drug user fees, biosimilar 
biological product user fees, animal drug user fees, and animal generic 
drug user fees that exceed the respective fiscal year 2016 limitations 
are appropriated and shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That fees derived from 
prescription drug, medical device, human generic drug, biosimilar 
biological product, animal drug, and animal generic drug assessments 
for fiscal year 2016, including any such fees collected prior to fiscal 
year 2016 but credited for fiscal year 2016, shall be subject to the 
fiscal year 2016 limitations: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
accept payment during fiscal year 2016 of user fees specified under 
this heading and authorized for fiscal year 2017, prior to the due date 
for such fees, and that amounts of such fees assessed for fiscal year 
2017 for which the Secretary accepts payment in fiscal year 2016 shall 
not be included in amounts under this heading: Provided further, That 
none of these funds shall be used to develop, establish, or operate any 
program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701: Provided further, 
That of the total amount appropriated: (1) $938,403,000 shall be for 
the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition and related field 
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (2) $1,365,691,000 
shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and related 
field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (3) $345,190,000 
shall be for the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and for 
related field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (4) 
$177,615,000 shall be for the Center for Veterinary Medicine and for 
related field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (5) 
$424,135,000 shall be for the Center for Devices and Radiological 
Health and for related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs; (6) $59,171,000 shall be for the National Center for 
Toxicological Research; (7) $564,117,000 shall be for the Center for 
Tobacco Products and for related field activities in the Office of 
Regulatory Affairs; (8) not to exceed $164,762,000 shall be for Rent 
and Related activities, of which $47,218,000 is for White Oak 
Consolidation, other than the amounts paid to the General Services 
Administration for rent; (9) not to exceed $229,432,000 shall be for 
payments to the General Services Administration for rent; and (10) 
$280,703,000 shall be for other activities, including the Office of the 
Commissioner of Food and Drugs, the Office of Foods and Veterinary 
Medicine, the Office of Medical and Tobacco Products, the Office of 
Global and Regulatory Policy, the Office of Operations, the Office of 
the Chief Scientist, and central services for these offices: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $25,000 of this amount shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, as determined by the Commissioner: Provided further, That any 
transfer of funds pursuant to section 770(n) of the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379dd(n)) shall only be from amounts made 
available under this heading for other activities: Provided further, 
That funds may be transferred from one specified activity to another 
with the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress.
    In addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 U.S.C. 263b, 
export certification user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381, priority 
review user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360n and 360ff, food and feed 
recall fees, food reinspection fees, and voluntary qualified importer 
program fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-31, outsourcing facility fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-62, prescription drug wholesale 
distributor licensing and inspection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
353(e)(3), and third-party logistics provider licensing and inspection 
fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360eee-3(c)(1), shall be credited to this 
account, to remain available until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by 
the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, 
$8,788,000, to remain available until expended.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                  Commodity Futures Trading Commission

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Commodity 
Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, and the rental of space (to include multiple 
year leases), in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and overhead 
expenses for the Office of the Inspector General such as training, 
lease of space, utilities, communications, printing, supplies, 
equipment, and other services, $250,000,000, including not to exceed 
$3,000 for official reception and representation expenses, and not to 
exceed $25,000 for the expenses for consultations and meetings hosted 
by the Commission with foreign governmental and other regulatory 
officials, of which not less than $50,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017, shall be for the purchase of information 
technology and of which not less than $3,000,000 shall be for expenses 
of the Office of the Inspector General, not to include overhead 
expenses such as training, lease of space, utilities, communications, 
printing, supplies, equipment, and other services: Provided, That the 
Commission shall apply the entire Second Refurbishment Credit in the 
current fiscal year under Section 23 of the Fifth Amendment to the 
Lease Agreement entered into with Lafayette Centre Property LLC on 
August 14, 2009: Provided further, That as the entire Second 
Refurbishment Credit is applied to monthly payments of the Commission 
in the current fiscal year under such Agreement, the sum herein 
appropriated for the current fiscal year shall be reduced on a dollar-
for-dollar basis by not more than $5,000,000, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2016 appropriation from the general fund of 
$245,000,000.

                       Farm Credit Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $65,600,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249: Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships: Provided further, That the agency may exceed this 
limitation by up to 10 percent with notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including rescissions and transfers of funds)

    Sec. 701.  Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
Agriculture for the current fiscal year under this Act shall be 
available for the purchase, in addition to those specifically provided 
for, of not to exceed 71 passenger motor vehicles of which 68 shall be 
for replacement only, and for the hire of such vehicles: Provided, That 
notwithstanding this section, the only purchase of new passenger 
vehicles shall be for those determined by the Secretary to be necessary 
for transportation safety, to reduce operational costs, and for the 
protection of life, property, and public safety.
    Sec. 702.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may transfer unobligated balances of 
discretionary funds appropriated by this Act or any other available 
unobligated discretionary balances that are remaining available of the 
Department of Agriculture to the Working Capital Fund for the 
acquisition of plant and capital equipment necessary for the delivery 
of financial, administrative, and information technology services of 
primary benefit to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture, such 
transferred funds to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
none of the funds made available by this Act or any other Act shall be 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the prior approval of 
the agency administrator: Provided further, That none of the funds 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to this section shall 
be available for obligation without the written notification and prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this 
Act or made available to the Department's Working Capital Fund shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure to make any changes to the 
Department's National Finance Center without written notification to 
and prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress as required by section 717 of this Act: Provided further, 
That of annual income amounts in the Working Capital Fund of the 
Department of Agriculture allocated for the National Finance Center, 
the Secretary may reserve not more than 4 percent for the replacement 
or acquisition of capital equipment, including equipment for the 
improvement and implementation of a financial management plan, 
information technology, and other systems of the National Finance 
Center or to pay any unforeseen, extraordinary cost of the National 
Finance Center: Provided further, That none of the amounts reserved 
shall be available for obligation unless the Secretary submits written 
notification of the obligation to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress: Provided further, That the limitation on the 
obligation of funds pending notification to Congressional Committees 
shall not apply to any obligation that, as determined by the Secretary, 
is necessary to respond to a declared state of emergency that 
significantly impacts the operations of the National Finance Center; or 
to evacuate employees of the National Finance Center to a safe haven to 
continue operations of the National Finance Center.
    Sec. 703.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 704.  No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is 
to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 705.  Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in the current 
fiscal year shall remain available until expended to disburse 
obligations made in the current fiscal year for the following accounts: 
the Rural Development Loan Fund program account, the Rural 
Electrification and Telecommunication Loans program account, and the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund program account.
    Sec. 706.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board: Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act may be transferred to the Office of the 
Chief Information Officer without written notification to and the prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress: Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 11319 of 
title 40, United States Code, none of the funds available to the 
Department of Agriculture for information technology shall be obligated 
for projects over $25,000 prior to receipt of written approval by the 
Chief Information Officer.
    Sec. 707.  Funds made available under section 524(b) of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current fiscal year shall 
remain available until expended to disburse obligations made in the 
current fiscal year.
    Sec. 708.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any former 
RUS borrower that has repaid or prepaid an insured, direct or 
guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, or any 
not-for-profit utility that is eligible to receive an insured or direct 
loan under such Act, shall be eligible for assistance under section 
313(b)(2)(B) of such Act in the same manner as a borrower under such 
Act.
    Sec. 709.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not 
more than $20,000,000 in unobligated balances from appropriations made 
available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Farm Service 
Agency shall remain available through September 30, 2017, for 
information technology expenses: Provided, That except as otherwise 
specifically provided by law, unobligated balances from appropriations 
made available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Rural 
Development mission area shall remain available through September 30, 
2017, for information technology expenses.
    Sec. 710.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by the 
employees of agencies funded by this Act in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 711.  In the case of each program established or amended by 
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79), other than by title I 
or subtitle A of title III of such Act, or programs for which 
indefinite amounts were provided in that Act, that is authorized or 
required to be carried out using funds of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation--
            (1) such funds shall be available for salaries and related 
        administrative expenses, including technical assistance, 
        associated with the implementation of the program, without 
        regard to the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in section 11 of the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
            (2) the use of such funds for such purpose shall not be 
        considered to be a fund transfer or allotment for purposes of 
        applying the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in such section.
    Sec. 712.  Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$2,000,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task 
forces of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to 
comply with negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate 
competitively awarded grants.
    Sec. 713.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs charged against any agricultural research, education, or 
extension grant awards issued by the National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture that exceed 30 percent of total Federal funds provided 
under each award: Provided, That notwithstanding section 1462 of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds provided by this Act for grants awarded 
competitively by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture shall 
be available to pay full allowable indirect costs for each grant 
awarded under section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
    Sec. 714.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out the following:
            (1) A program authorized by section 14(h)(1) of the 
        Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1012(h)(1)). Of the funds available under section 14(h)(1) of 
        such Act for fiscal year 2016, $69,000,000 are rescinded.
            (2) An Environmental Quality Incentives Program as 
        authorized by sections 1240-1240H of the Food Security Act of 
        1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-3839aa-8) in excess of $1,349,000,000: 
        Provided, That this limitation shall apply only to funds 
        provided by section 1241(a)(5)(C) of the Food Security Act of 
        1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)(5)(C)).
            (3) The Conservation Stewardship Program as authorized by 
        sections 1238D-1238G of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 
        U.S.C. 3838d-3838g) in excess of 7,741,000 acres.
            (4) The Biomass Crop Assistance Program authorized by 
        section 9011 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
        2002 (7 U.S.C. 8111) in excess of $12,000,000 in new 
        obligational authority.
            (5) The Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical and Biobased 
        Product Manufacturing Assistance program as authorized by 
        section 9003(g)(1) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment 
        Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8103(g)(1)) in excess of $147,000,000.
            (6) The Rural Energy for America Program as authorized by 
        section 9007(g)(1) of the Farm Security and Rural Investment 
        Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107(g)(1)) in excess of $35,000,000.
    Sec. 715.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out a program under subsection 
(b)(2)(A)(viii) of section 14222 of Public Law 110-246 in excess of 
$884,980,000, as follows: Child Nutrition Programs Entitlement 
Commodities--$465,000,000; State Option Contracts--$5,000,000; Removal 
of Defective Commodities--$2,500,000: Provided, That none of the funds 
made available in this Act or any other Act shall be used for salaries 
and expenses to carry out in this fiscal year section 19(i)(1)(E) of 
the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended, except in 
an amount that excludes the transfer of $125,000,000 of the funds to be 
transferred under subsection (c) of section 14222 of Public Law 110-
246, until October 1, 2016: Provided further, That $125,000,000 made 
available on October 1, 2016, to carry out section 19(i)(1)(E) of the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended, shall be 
excluded from the limitation described in subsection (b)(2)(A)(ix) of 
section 14222 of Public Law 110-246: Provided further, That none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the salaries or expenses of any employee of the 
Department of Agriculture or officer of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation to carry out clause 3 of section 32 of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1935 (Public Law 74-320, 7 U.S.C. 612c, as amended), 
or for any surplus removal activities or price support activities under 
section 5 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act: Provided 
further, That of the available unobligated balances under 
(b)(2)(A)(viii) of section 14222 of Public Law 110-246, $293,020,000 
are rescinded.
    Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who prepare 
or submit appropriations language as part of the President's budget 
submission to the Congress for programs under the jurisdiction of the 
Appropriations Subcommittees on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies that assumes revenues or 
reflects a reduction from the previous year due to user fees proposals 
that have not been enacted into law prior to the submission of the 
budget unless such budget submission identifies which additional 
spending reductions should occur in the event the user fees proposals 
are not enacted prior to the date of the convening of a committee of 
conference for the fiscal year 2017 appropriations Act.
    Sec. 717. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided 
by previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal 
year, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall 
be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming, 
transfer of funds, or reimbursements as authorized by the Economy Act, 
or in the case of the Department of Agriculture, through use of the 
authority provided by section 702(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public Law 89-106 
(7 U.S.C. 2263), that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or
            (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, or the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
(as the case may be) notifies in writing and receives approval from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 
days in advance of the reprogramming of such funds or the use of such 
authority.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects 
through a reprogramming or use of the authorities referred to in 
subsection (a) involving funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
        activities, or projects as approved by Congress; unless the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services, or the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading 
        Commission (as the case may be) notifies in writing and 
        receives approval from the Committees on Appropriations of both 
        Houses of Congress at least 30 days in advance of the 
        reprogramming or transfer of such funds or the use of such 
        authority.
    (c) The Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, or the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
shall notify in writing and receive approval from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress before implementing any 
program or activity not carried out during the previous fiscal year 
unless the program or activity is funded by this Act or specifically 
funded by any other Act.
    (d) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for--
            (1) modifying major capital investments funding levels, 
        including information technology systems, that involves 
        increasing or decreasing funds in the current fiscal year for 
        the individual investment in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent 
        of the total cost, whichever is less;
            (2) realigning or reorganizing new, current, or vacant 
        positions or agency activities or functions to establish a 
        center, office, branch, or similar entity with five or more 
        personnel; or
            (3) carrying out activities or functions that were not 
        described in the budget request; unless the agencies funded by 
        this Act notify, in writing, the Committees on Appropriations 
        of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in advance of using 
        the funds for these purposes.
    (e) As described in this section, no funds may be used for any 
activities unless the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, or the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission receives from the Committee on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress written or electronic mail confirmation of receipt of the 
notification as required in this section.
    Sec. 718.  Notwithstanding section 310B(g)(5) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)(5)), the Secretary may 
assess a one-time fee for any guaranteed business and industry loan in 
an amount that does not exceed 3 percent of the guaranteed principal 
portion of the loan.
    Sec. 719.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug 
Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the Farm 
Credit Administration shall be used to transmit or otherwise make 
available reports, questions, or responses to questions that are a 
result of information requested for the appropriations hearing process 
to any non-Department of Agriculture, non-Department of Health and 
Human Services, non-Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or non-Farm 
Credit Administration employee.
    Sec. 720.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, may be used by an executive branch agency 
to produce any prepackaged news story intended for broadcast or 
distribution in the United States unless the story includes a clear 
notification within the text or audio of the prepackaged news story 
that the prepackaged news story was prepared or funded by that 
executive branch agency.
    Sec. 721.  No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act or any 
other Act to any other agency or office of the Department for more than 
60 days in a fiscal year unless the individual's employing agency or 
office is fully reimbursed by the receiving agency or office for the 
salary and expenses of the employee for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 722.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who provide nonrecourse 
marketing assistance loans for mohair under section 1201 of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79).
    Sec. 723.  Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Commissioner of the Food 
and Drug Administration, the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission, and the Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
detailed spending plan by program, project, and activity for all the 
funds made available under this Act including appropriated user fees, 
as defined in the report accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 724.  Funds made available under title II of the Food for 
Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) may only be used to provide 
assistance to recipient nations if adequate monitoring and controls, as 
determined by the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International 
Development, are in place to ensure that emergency food aid is received 
by the intended beneficiaries in areas affected by food shortages and 
not diverted for unauthorized or inappropriate purposes.
    Sec. 725.  The Secretary shall continue the pilot program in effect 
for fiscal year 2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502 single 
family direct loans. The Secretary shall continue agreements with 
current intermediary organizations and not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act enter into additional agreements necessary for a 
total not less than 10 qualified intermediary organizations. The 
Secretary shall work with these organizations to increase the 
effectiveness of the section 502 single family direct loan program in 
rural communities and shall set aside and make available from the 
national reserve section 502 loans an amount necessary to support the 
work of such intermediaries and provide a priority for review of such 
loans.
    Sec. 726.  For loans and loan guarantees that do not require budget 
authority and the program level has been established in this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may increase the program level for such loans 
and loan guarantees by not more than 25 percent: Provided, That prior 
to the Secretary implementing such an increase, the Secretary notifies, 
in writing, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
at least 15 days in advance.
    Sec. 727.  None of the credit card refunds or rebates transferred 
to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to section 729 of the Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2002 (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public Law 107-76) shall be 
available for obligation without written notification to, and the prior 
approval of, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress: Provided, That the refunds or rebates so transferred shall be 
available for obligation only for the acquisition of plant and capital 
equipment necessary for the delivery of financial, administrative, and 
information technology services of primary benefit to the agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture.
    Sec. 728. (a) Section 5b(k)(5) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 
U.S.C. 7a-1(k)(5)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(5) Confidentiality agreement.--Before the Commission may 
        share information with any entity described in paragraph (4), 
        the Commission shall receive a written agreement from each 
        entity stating that the entity shall abide by the 
        confidentiality requirements described in section 8 relating to 
        the information on swaps transactions that is provided.''.
    (b) Section 21(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 24a(d)) 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Confidentiality Agreement.--Before the swap data repository 
may share information with any entity described in subsection (c)(7), 
the swap data repository shall receive a written agreement from each 
entity stating that the entity shall abide by the confidentiality 
requirements described in section 8 relating to the information on 
swaps transactions that is provided.''.
    (c) The amendments made by this section shall take effect as if 
enacted on July 21, 2010.
    Sec. 729.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to procure processed poultry products imported into the United States 
from the People's Republic of China for use in the school lunch program 
under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 
et seq.), the Child and Adult Food Care Program under section 17 of 
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1766), the Summer Food Service Program for Children 
under section 13 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761), or the school breakfast 
program under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.).
    Sec. 730.  In response to an eligible community where the drinking 
water supplies are inadequate due to a natural disaster, as determined 
by the Secretary, including drought or severe weather, the Secretary 
may provide potable water through the Emergency Community Water 
Assistance Grant Program for an additional period of time not to exceed 
120 days beyond the established period provided under the Program in 
order to protect public health.
    Sec. 731.  Funds provided by this or any prior Appropriations Act 
for the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) 
shall be made available without regard to section 7128 of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 3371 note), under the matching 
requirements in laws in effect on the date before the date of enactment 
of such section: Provided, That the requirements of 7 U.S.C. 450i(b)(9) 
shall continue to apply.
    Sec. 732.  For the period beginning on the date of enactment of 
this Act through school year 2016-2017, with respect to the school 
lunch program established under the Richard B. Russell National School 
Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) or the school breakfast program 
established under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et 
seq.) and final regulations published by the Department of Agriculture 
in the Federal Register on January 26, 2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 4088 et 
seq.), the Secretary shall allow States to grant an exemption from the 
whole grain requirements that took effect on or after July 1, 2014, and 
the States shall establish a process for evaluating and responding, in 
a reasonable amount of time, to requests for an exemption: Provided, 
That school food authorities demonstrate hardship, including financial 
hardship, in procuring specific whole grain products which are 
acceptable to the students and compliant with the whole grain-rich 
requirements: Provided further, That school food authorities shall 
comply with the applicable grain component or standard with respect to 
the school lunch or school breakfast program that was in effect prior 
to July 1, 2014.
    Sec. 733.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to implement any regulations under the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), 
the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), the Healthy, 
Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-296), or any other law 
that would require a reduction in the quantity of sodium contained in 
federally reimbursed meals, foods, and snacks sold in schools below 
Target 1 (as described in section 220.8(f)(3) of title 7, Code of 
Federal Regulations (or successor regulations)) until the latest 
scientific research establishes the reduction is beneficial for 
children.
    Sec. 734.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to release or implement the final version of the eighth edition of the 
Dietary Guidelines for Americans, revised pursuant to section 301 of 
the National Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Act of 1990 (7 
U.S.C. 5341), unless the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services comply with each of the following 
requirements:
            (1) Each revision to any nutritional or dietary information 
        or guideline contained in the 2010 edition of the Dietary 
        Guidelines for Americans and any new nutritional or dietary 
        information or guideline to be included in the eighth edition 
        of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans--
                    (A) shall be based on scientific evidence that has 
                been rated ``Grade I: Strong'' by the grading rubric 
                developed by the Nutrition Evidence Library of the 
                Department of Agriculture; and
                    (B) shall be limited in scope to only matters of 
                diet and nutrient intake.
            (2) The Secretaries shall release a preliminary draft of 
        the eighth edition of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 
        including a list of all the scientific studies and evidence 
        supporting each revised or new nutritional or dietary 
        information or guideline, for a period of public comment of at 
        least 90 days.
            (3) Following the end of the public comment period, the 
        Secretaries shall provide a period for agency review of public 
        comments of at least 60 days.
    Sec. 735.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Food and Nutrition 
Service, to commence any new research and evaluation projects until the 
Secretary submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress a research and evaluation plan for fiscal year 2016, prepared 
in coordination with the Research, Education, and Economics mission 
area of the Department of Agriculture, and a period of 30 days 
beginning on the date of the submission of the plan expires to permit 
Congressional review of the plan.
    Sec. 736.  The unobligated balances identified by the Treasury 
Appropriation Fund Symbol 12X0113 are rescinded.
    Sec. 737.  Of the unobligated prior year balance cancellations 
identified by Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbol 12X1980, $13,000,000 
is rescinded.
    Sec. 738.  The unobligated balances identified by the Treasury 
Appropriation Fund Symbol 12X3318, 12X1010, 12X1090, 12X1003, 12X1907, 
12X0402, 12X3508, and 12X3322 are rescinded.
    Sec. 739.  Section 166 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and 
Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7286) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and title I of the Food, Conservation, 
        and Energy Act of 2008'' both places it appears and inserting 
        ``title I of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, 
        and Subtitle B of title I of the Agricultural Act of 2014''; 
        and
            (2) by amending paragraph (3) of subsection (c) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(3) Application of authority.--The Secretary shall carry 
        out paragraph (1) under the same terms and conditions as were 
        in effect for the 2008 crop year for loans made to producers 
        under subtitle B of title I of the Food, Conservation, and 
        Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8701 et. seq.).''.
    Sec. 740.  Of the unobligated balances identified by the Treasury 
Appropriation Fund Symbol 12X1072, $20,000,000 is hereby rescinded: 
Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement or for disaster 
relief requirement pursuant to a Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 741.  In carrying out subsection (h) of section 502 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall have the same authority with respect to loans guaranteed under 
such section and eligible lenders for such loans as the Secretary has 
under subsections (h) and (j) of section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1490p-2) with respect to loans guaranteed under such section 538 and 
eligible lenders for such loans.
    Sec. 742.  Of the unobligated balances of appropriations in Public 
Law 108-199, Public Law 109-234, and Public Law 110-28 made available 
for the ``Emergency Watershed Protection Program'', $2,400,000 shall be 
available for the purposes of such program for any disaster occurring 
fiscal year 2016 or fiscal year 2017, and shall remain available until 
expended.
    Sec. 743.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to propose, promulgate, or implement any rule, or take any other action 
with respect to, allowing or requiring information intended for a 
prescribing health care professional, in the case of a drug or 
biological product subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be distributed to such 
professional electronically (in lieu of in paper form) unless and until 
a Federal law is enacted to allow or require such distribution.
    Sec. 744.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the final rule entitled ``Food 
Labeling; Nutrition Labeling of Standard Menu Items in Restaurants and 
Similar Retail Food Establishments'' published by the Food and Drug 
Administration in the Federal Register on December 1, 2014 (79 Fed. 
Reg. 71156 et seq.) until the later of--
            (1) December 1, 2016; or
            (2) the date that is one year after the date on which the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services publishes Level 1 
        guidance with respect to nutrition labeling of standard menu 
        items in restaurants and similar retail food establishments in 
        accordance with paragraphs (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), 
        and (g)(1)(iv) of section 10.115 of title 21, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
    Sec. 745.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to review or approve an application for an exemption for 
investigational use of a drug or biological product under section 
505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) 
or section 351(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
262(a)(3)) in research in which a human embryo is intentionally created 
or modified to include a heritable genetic modification.
    Sec. 746.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to implement or enforce any provision of the FDA Food 
Safety Modernization Act (P.L. 111-353), including the amendments made 
thereby, with respect to the regulation of the distribution, sale, or 
receipt of dried spent grain byproducts of the alcoholic beverage 
production process, irrespective of whether such byproducts are solely 
intended for use as animal feed.
    Sec. 747.  For each tobacco product which the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, by regulation under section 901(b) of the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, deems to be subject to chapter IX of such 
Act, none of the funds made available in this Act or any other Act may 
be used to treat any reference in sections 905 and 910 of such Act to 
February 15, 2007, as other than a reference to the effective date of 
the regulation under which a tobacco product is deemed subject to the 
requirements of such Act pursuant to section 901(b)(1) of such Act, and 
any reference in such sections to 21 months after the date of enactment 
of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act as other than 
a reference to 21 months after the date of such final deeming 
regulation.
    Sec. 748.  The program ineligibility penalty that prohibits payment 
by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation of any portion of a crop 
insurance premium, otherwise required by sections 1211(a)(1)(E) and 
1221(c) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3811(a)(1)(E), 
3821(c)) as added by section 2611 of the Agricultural Act of 2014, 
shall not apply or be enforced for the 2016 reinsurance year: Provided, 
That the delay in enforcement imposed by this section shall not be 
construed to limit the authority of the Department of Agriculture to 
assist producers, particularly producers subject to sections 1211 and 
1221 of the Food Security Act of 1985 for the first time solely due to 
an amendment made by section 2611 of the Agricultural Act of 2014, to 
come into compliance with the requirements of such sections in a timely 
manner: Provided further, That a producer that comes into compliance 
before June 30, 2016, shall not be ineligible for payment of a portion 
of a crop insurance premium for the 2016 or 2017 reinsurance year on 
account of non-compliance before that date.
    Sec. 749.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the rule entitled ``Importation of 
Beef From a Region in Argentina'' published by the Department of 
Agriculture in the Federal Register on July 2, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 37935 
et seq.) or the rule entitled ``Importation of Beef From a Region in 
Brazil'' published by the Department of Agriculture in the Federal 
Register on July 2, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 37923 et seq.) until the 
Secretary of Agriculture--(1) conducts a comprehensive risk evaluation 
that includes a quantitative risk assessment of importing beef produced 
in Argentina and Brazil; and (2) makes additional site visits to beef 
slaughtering and processing facilities in Argentina and Brazil and 
submits to the Committee on Appropriations a report on each such site 
visit not later than 90 days after the date on which the visit occurs.
    Sec. 750.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out any activities or incur any expense related to the 
issuance of licenses under section 3 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 
U.S.C. 2133), or the renewal of such licenses, to class B dealers who 
sell dogs and cats for use in research, experiments, teaching, or 
testing.
    Sec. 751.  Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall publish a 
notice in the Federal Register clarifying that until the compliance 
date specified in the order published by the Food and Drug 
Administration in the Federal Register on June 17, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 
34650 et seq.), partially hydrogenated oils shall be considered 
generally regarded as safe within the meaning of section 201(s) of the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(s)).
    Sec. 752.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
    (1) the Secretary of Agriculture shall implement section 12106 of 
the Agricultural Act of 2014 and the amendments made by such section 
(21 U.S.C. 601 note; Public Law 113-79), including any regulation or 
guidance the Secretary of Agriculture issues to carry out such section 
or the amendments made by such section; and
    (2) the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall implement 
section 403(t) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
343(t)), including any regulation or guidance the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services issues to carry out such section.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 753.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is $0.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, 
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2016''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 153

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 3049

                          [Report No. 114-205]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 14, 2015

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
