[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 72 Engrossed in House (EH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. CON. RES. 72

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That when the House adjourns on any legislative day from Tuesday, 
August 4, 2015, through Friday, September 4, 2015, on a motion offered 
pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his 
designee, it stand adjourned until 2:00 p.m. on Tuesday, September 8, 
2015, or until the time of any


              

 reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first; and that when the Senate recesses or adjourns 
on any day from Tuesday, August 4, 2015, through Saturday, September 5, 
2015, on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, it stand recessed or adjourned until 
noon on Tuesday, September 8, 2015, or such other time on that day as 
may be specified by its Majority Leader or his designee in the motion 
to recess or adjourn, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to 
section 3 of this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2. (a) The Speaker or his designee, after consultation with 
the Minority Leader of the House, shall notify the Members of the House 
to reassemble at such place and time as he may designate if, in his 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the House 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the House shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
    Sec. 3. (a) The Majority Leader of the Senate or his designee, 
after concurrence with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify 
the Members of the Senate to reassemble at such place and time as he 
may designate if, in his opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the Senate 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.

            Passed the House of Representatives August 4, 2015.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                            H. CON. RES. 72

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Providing for a conditional adjournment of the House of Representatives 
         and a conditional recess or adjournment of the Senate.
