[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2407 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2407

   To posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to each of J. 
  Christopher Stevens, Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, and Sean Smith in 
           recognition of their contributions to the Nation.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 16, 2015

 Mr. Markey (for himself, Ms. Ayotte, Ms. Warren, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. 
Boxer, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Merkley, and Mr. Rubio) introduced the following 
 bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Banking, 
                       Housing, and Urban Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to each of J. 
  Christopher Stevens, Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, and Sean Smith in 
           recognition of their contributions to the Nation.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) on September 11, 2012, the Temporary Mission Facility 
        of the United States, and its personnel in Benghazi, Libya, 
        were attacked by militants;
            (2) four Americans were killed in the terrorist attack, 
        including Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Sean Smith, Glen 
        Doherty, and Tyrone Woods;
            (3) Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods were former Navy SEALs 
        who served as security personnel in Libya and who, as the 
        attack unfolded, bravely attempted to protect United States 
        personnel and defend United States property, which in so doing, 
        they selflessly sacrificed their own lives;
            (4) J. Christopher Stevens served for 21 years in the 
        United States Foreign Service;
            (5) J. Christopher Stevens was serving as United States 
        Ambassador to Libya and previously served twice in the country, 
        as both Special Representative to the Libyan Transitional 
        National Council and as the Deputy Chief of Mission;
            (6) earlier in his life, J. Christopher Stevens also served 
        as a Peace Corps volunteer teaching English in Morocco;
            (7) Glen Doherty was a Navy SEAL for 12 years and served in 
        Iraq and Afghanistan and attained the rank of Petty Officer 
        First Class and earned the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation 
        Medal;
            (8) after leaving the Navy, Glen Doherty worked to protect 
        American personnel abroad;
            (9) Tyrone Woods served for 20 years as a Navy SEAL 
        including tours in Iraq and Afghanistan;
            (10) in Iraq Tyrone Woods led multiple raids and 
        reconnaissance missions and earned the Bronze Star;
            (11) after retiring from the Navy as a Senior Chief Petty 
        Officer, Tyrone Woods worked to protect American personnel 
        abroad;
            (12) Sean Smith served for 6 years in the United States Air 
        Force, where he attained the rank of Staff Sergeant and was 
        awarded the Air Force Commendation Medal;
            (13) after leaving the Air Force, Sean Smith served for 10 
        years in the Department of State on various assignments, which 
        took him to places such as Baghdad, Brussels, Pretoria, and The 
        Hague; and
            (14) as their careers attest, all four men served their 
        country honorably.

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Award Authorized.--The President pro tempore of the Senate and 
the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall make appropriate 
arrangements for the posthumous award, on behalf of the Congress, of a 
gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration of J. Christopher 
Stevens, Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, and Sean Smith in recognition of 
their contributions to the United States.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purposes of the awards referred 
to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this 
Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall strike the gold medals with 
suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the 
Secretary.

SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    Under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, the 
Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medals 
struck under section 2, at a price sufficient to cover the costs of the 
medals, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and 
overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medals.

SEC. 4. NATIONAL MEDALS.

    Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes 
of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such 
amounts as may be necessary to pay for the cost of the medals struck 
pursuant to this Act.
    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sale of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 3 shall be deposited in the United States 
Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
                                 <all>
