[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2513 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2513

 To amend the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to include the outlays 
and revenue totals relating to social security benefits in a concurrent 
           resolution on the budget, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            February 8, 2016

  Mr. Perdue introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
                referred to the Committee on the Budget

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to include the outlays 
and revenue totals relating to social security benefits in a concurrent 
           resolution on the budget, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Accurate Accounting Act of 2016''.

                   TITLE I--SOCIAL SECURITY ON BUDGET

SEC. 101. CONTENT OF CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET.

    (a) Congressional Budget Act of 1974.--Section 301(a) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 632(a)) is amended by 
striking the matter following paragraph (7).
    (b) Budget Enforcement Act of 1990.--Section 13301 of the Budget 
Enforcement Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 632 note) is amended by striking 
subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Exclusion of Social Security From All Budgets.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the receipts and 
disbursements of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund 
and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund shall not be counted as 
new budget authority, outlays, receipts, or deficit or surplus for the 
purpose of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985 (2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.).''.

SEC. 102. STATUTORY PAY-AS-YOU-GO ACT OF 2010.

    Section 3(4) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 
932(4)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) The term `savings' does not include budgetary 
                effects that increase the receipts or decrease the 
                disbursements of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors 
                Insurance Trust Fund or the Federal Hospital Insurance 
                Trust Fund.''.

                     TITLE II--ZERO-BASED BUDGETING

SEC. 201. FINDINGS; SENSE OF THE SENATE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) Congress has the authority and responsibility under the 
        Constitution of the United States over financial and budgetary 
        matters, including the power to appropriate funds;
            (2) it is recognized that the incremental budgeting does 
        not lend itself to cost control nor accountability in spending;
            (3) a zero-based budget would offer tangible savings 
        achieved through more thorough planning and more efficient 
        allocation of resources; and
            (4) zero-based budgeting would establish a budget based 
        upon current needs rather than previous expenditures.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that 
Congress should establish a plan to apply zero-based budgeting to the 
Federal budgetary process.

SEC. 202. ZERO-BASED BUDGETING.

    Section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i)(1) The President shall submit with materials related to the 
budget transmitted under subsection (a) on or after January 1, 2017, 
and not less than once every 4 years thereafter, a budget for each 
department and agency that contains the following information:
            ``(A) A description of each activity for which the 
        department or agency receives an appropriation in the current 
        fiscal year or for which the department or agency requests an 
        appropriation for the fiscal year for which the budget is 
        submitted.
            ``(B) The legal basis for each activity described in 
        subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) For each activity described in subparagraph (A)--
                    ``(i) 3 alternative funding levels for the fiscal 
                year in which the budget is submitted;
                    ``(ii) a summary of the priorities that would be 
                accomplished within each level; and
                    ``(iii) the additional increments of value that 
                would be added by the higher funding levels, not fewer 
                than 2 of which shall be not greater than the funding 
                level for the current fiscal year.
            ``(D) For each activity, 1 or more measures of cost 
        efficiency and effectiveness of the activity.
    ``(2) As soon as practicable, the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall publish guidelines to carry out this 
subsection, including guidelines that require that--
            ``(A) the baseline budget of each department or agency is 
        assumed to be zero; and
            ``(B) each proposed expenditure shall be justified as if 
        the proposed expenditure is a new expenditure.''.

              TITLE III--OFF-BUDGET PROGRAM ACCOUNTABILITY

SEC. 401. STUDY BY THE GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE OF FORMS OF FEDERAL 
              FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS THAT ARE NOT REVIEWED ANNUALLY BY 
              CONGRESS.

    The second sentence of section 404 of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 654) is amended by striking ``from time to time'' and 
``not less than once every 5 years''.
                                 <all>
