[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5305 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5305

To establish the Ste. Genevieve National Historic Site in the State of 
                   Missouri, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 23, 2016

Mr. Smith of Missouri introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                 to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish the Ste. Genevieve National Historic Site in the State of 
                   Missouri, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ste. Genevieve National Historic 
Site Establishment Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Historic district.--The term ``Historic District'' 
        means the Ste. Genevieve Historic District National Historic 
        Landmark, as generally depicted on the Map.
            (2) Historic site.--The term ``Historic Site'' means the 
        Ste. Genevieve National Historic Site established by section 
        3(a).
            (3) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Ste. 
        Genevieve National Historic Site Proposed Boundary'', numbered 
        571/132,626, and dated May 2016.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Missouri.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE STE. GENEVIEVE NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), there is 
        established the Ste. Genevieve National Historic Site in the 
        State as a unit of the National Park System to preserve, 
        protect, and interpret for the benefit of present and future 
        generations the themes of French settlement, vernacular 
        architecture, and community form and farming on the frontier 
        associated with Ste. Genevieve.
            (2) Conditions for establishment.--The Historic Site shall 
        not be established until the date on which the Secretary 
        determines that--
                    (A) sufficient land has been acquired for the 
                Historic Site to constitute a manageable unit; and
                    (B) the Secretary has entered into a written 
                agreement providing that land owned by the State, the 
                City of Ste. Genevieve, or other entity within the 
                Historic District shall be managed consistent with the 
                purposes of this Act.
    (b) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the Historic Site shall be the 
boundaries generally depicted on the Map.
    (c) Availability of Map.--The Map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (d) Acquisition Authority.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire any land or 
        interest in land located within the boundary of the Historic 
        Site or any nationally significant property identified in the 
        special resource study within the Historic District by--
                    (A) donation;
                    (B) purchase with donated or appropriated funds; or
                    (C) exchange.
            (2) Boundary revision.--On the acquisition of any property 
        within the Historic District under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall revise the boundary of the Historic Site to include the 
        property.
    (e) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        Historic Site in accordance with--
                    (A) this Act; and
                    (B) the laws generally applicable to units of the 
                National Park System, including--
                            (i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and 
                        sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 
                        of title 54, United States Code; and
                            (ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United 
                        States Code.
            (2) Management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the 
                date on which funds are made available to prepare a 
                general management plan for the Historic Site, the 
                Secretary shall prepare the general management plan in 
                accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United 
                States Code.
                    (B) Submission to congress.--On completion of the 
                general management plan under subparagraph (A), the 
                Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural 
                Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
                Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate 
                the general management plan.
            (3) Related sites.--The Secretary may provide 
        interpretative tours and educational programs at related 
        historic and cultural sites within the Historic District 
        associated with the purposes for which the Historic Site is 
        established.
    (f) Cooperative Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may provide technical 
        assistance and enter into cooperative agreements with the owner 
        of a nationally significant property within the Historic Site 
        or the Historic District, to identify, mark, interpret, 
        improve, and restore the property.
            (2) Right of access.--A cooperative agreement entered into 
        under paragraph (1) shall provide that the Secretary, acting 
        through the Director of the National Park Service, shall have 
        the right of access at all reasonable times to all public 
        portions of the property covered by the agreement for the 
        purposes of--
                    (A) conducting visitors through the property; and
                    (B) interpreting the property for the public.
            (3) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                    (A) Federal share.--The Federal share of the total 
                cost of any activity carried out under a cooperative 
                agreement entered into under this subsection shall be 
                not more than 50 percent.
                    (B) Form of non-federal share.--The non-Federal 
                share of an activity carried out under a cooperative 
                agreement entered into under this subsection may be in 
                the form of donated property, goods, or services fairly 
                valued.
            (4) Changes or alterations.--No changes or alterations 
        shall be made to any property covered by a cooperative 
        agreement entered into under paragraph (1) unless the Secretary 
        and the other party to the agreement agree to the changes or 
        alterations.
            (5) Conversion, use, or disposal.--Any payment by the 
        Secretary under this subsection shall be subject to an 
        agreement that the conversion, use, or disposal of a property 
        for purposes contrary to the purposes of this section, as 
        determined by the Secretary, shall entitle the United States to 
        reimbursement in any amount equal to the greater of--
                    (A) the amounts made available to the property by 
                the United States; or
                    (B) the portion of the increased value of the 
                property attributable to the amounts made available 
                under this subsection, as determined at the time of the 
                conversion, use, or disposal.
    (g) Limited Role of the Secretary.--Nothing in this Act authorizes 
the Secretary to assume overall financial responsibility for the 
operation, maintenance, or management of the Historic District.

SEC. 4. LAND ACQUISITION; NO BUFFER ZONES.

    (a) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary is authorized to acquire land 
and interests in land within the boundaries of the Historic Site and 
Historic District by donation or exchange only (and in the case of an 
exchange, no payment may be made by the Secretary to any landowner). 
The Secretary may not acquire by condemnation any land or interest in 
land within the boundaries of the Historic Site and Historic District. 
No private property or non-Federal public property shall be included 
within the boundaries of the Historic Site and Historic District 
without the written consent of the owner of such property.
    (b) No Buffer Zones.--Nothing in this Act, the establishment of the 
Historic Site and Historic District, or the management of the Historic 
Site and Historic District shall be construed to create buffer zones 
outside of the Historic Site and Historic District. That an activity or 
use can be seen or heard from within the Historic Site and Historic 
District shall not preclude the conduct of that activity or use outside 
the Historic Site and Historic District.
                                 <all>
