[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4479 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4479

To provide emergency assistance related to the Flint water crisis, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 4, 2016

  Mr. Kildee introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committees on 
    Transportation and Infrastructure, Education and the Workforce, 
  Financial Services, and the Budget, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide emergency assistance related to the Flint water crisis, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Families of Flint Act''.

SEC. 2. LEAD PREVENTION GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Part B of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
300g et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 1420A. LEAD PREVENTION GRANT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) City.--The term `City' means the City of Flint, 
        Michigan.
            ``(2) State.--The term `State' means the State of Michigan.
    ``(b) Grant Program.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--Using funds made available under 
        section 7(a) of the Families of Flint Act, the Administrator 
        shall make grants to the State and the City for use in 
        accordance with this subsection.
            ``(2) Use of funds.--The use of funds from a grant made 
        under this subsection shall be--
                    ``(A) determined by the Administrator, in 
                consultation with the State and the City; and
                    ``(B) used only for an activity authorized under 
                paragraph (3).
            ``(3) Authorized activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Administrator may authorize 
                the use by the State or the City of funds from a grant 
                under this subsection to carry out any activity that 
                the Administrator determines is necessary to ensure 
                that the drinking water supply of the City does not 
                contain--
                            ``(i) lead levels that threaten public 
                        health or the environment; or
                            ``(ii) lead, other drinking water 
                        contaminants, and pathogens that pose a threat 
                        to public health.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--Authorized activities under 
                subparagraph (A) may include--
                            ``(i) testing, evaluation, and sampling of 
                        water supplies and public and private water 
                        service lines in the water distribution system 
                        of the City;
                            ``(ii) repairs and upgrades to water 
                        treatment facilities that serve the City;
                            ``(iii) optimization of corrosion control 
                        treatment of the public and private water 
                        service lines in the water distribution system 
                        of the City;
                            ``(iv) repairs to water mains and 
                        replacement of public and private water service 
                        lines in the water distribution system of the 
                        City; and
                            ``(v) modification or construction of new 
                        pipelines and treatment system startup 
                        evaluations needed to ensure optimal treatment 
                        of water from the Karegnondi Water Authority 
                        before and after the transition to this new 
                        source.
            ``(4) Matching requirement.--As a condition of the State or 
        the City receiving a grant under this subsection, the 
        Administrator shall require the State to provide funds from 
        non-Federal sources in an amount that is at least equal to the 
        amount provided by the Federal Government.
    ``(c) Administration.--The Administrator may use funds made 
available under section 7(a) of the Families of Flint Act--
            ``(1) for the costs of technical assistance provided by the 
        Environmental Protection Agency or by contractors of the 
        Environmental Protection Agency; and
            ``(2) for administrative activities in support of 
        authorized activities.
    ``(d) Report.--Not later than 45 days after the first day of each 
fiscal year beginning prior to the termination date in subsection (e), 
the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the 
Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of 
the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
of the House of Representatives a report describing the actions taken 
to carry out the purposes of the grant program, as described in 
subsection (b)(3).
    ``(e) Sunset.--The authority provided by this section terminates on 
the date that is 10 years after the date of the enactment of the 
Families of Flint Act.''.

SEC. 3. LOAN FORGIVENESS.

    The matter under the heading ``State and Tribal Assistance Grants'' 
under the heading ``ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY'' in title II of 
division G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public Law 
114-113), is amended in paragraph (1), by striking the semicolon at the 
end and inserting the following: ``or, if a Federal or State emergency 
declaration has been issued due to a threat to public health from 
heightened exposure to lead in a municipal drinking water supply, 
before the date of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That in a 
State in which such an emergency declaration has been issued, the State 
may use more than 20 percent of the funds made available under this 
title to the State for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund 
capitalization grants to provide additional subsidy to eligible 
recipients;''.

SEC. 4. CENTER OF EXCELLENCE ON LEAD EXPOSURE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Center.--The term ``Center'' means the Center of 
        Excellence on Lead Exposure established under subsection (b).
            (2) Community.--The term ``community'' means the community 
        of the City.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Health and Human Services.
    (b) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, by contract, grant, or 
cooperative agreement, establish in the City a center to be known as 
the ``Center of Excellence on Lead Exposure''.
    (c) Collaboration.--The Center shall collaborate with research 
institutions, hospitals, Federally qualified health centers, school-
based health centers, community behavioral health providers, public 
health agencies of Genesee County in the State, and the State in the 
development and operation of the Center.
    (d) Advisory Committee.--
            (1) In general.--The Center shall establish an advisory 
        committee to provide scientific and technical support for the 
        Center and to advise the Secretary, consisting of, at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) an epidemiologist;
                    (B) a toxicologist;
                    (C) a mental health professional;
                    (D) a pediatrician;
                    (E) an early childhood education expert;
                    (F) a special education expert;
                    (G) a dietician;
                    (H) an environmental health expert; and
                    (I) 2 community representatives.
            (2) Application of faca.--The advisory committee shall be 
        subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (e) Responsibilities.--The Center shall, at a minimum, develop and 
carry out the following components and responsibilities:
            (1) Establish a health registry with the following 
        responsibilities:
                    (A) Survey City residents about exposure to lead, 
                and inform City residents of the health and 
                developmental impacts that may have resulted from that 
                exposure.
                    (B) Identify and provide ongoing monitoring for 
                City residents who have been exposed to lead.
                    (C) Collect and analyze clinical data related to 
                the monitoring and treatment of City residents.
                    (D) Provide culturally and linguistically relevant 
                personnel and materials necessary for City residents.
            (2) Conduct research on physical, behavioral, and 
        developmental impacts, as well as other health or educational 
        impacts associated with lead exposure, including cancer, heart 
        disease, liver disease, neurological impacts, developmental 
        delays, reproductive health impacts, and maternal and fetal 
        health impacts.
            (3) Develop lead mitigation recommendations and allocate 
        resources, as appropriate, for health-, education-, and 
        nutrition-related interventions, as well as other 
        interventions, to mitigate lead exposure in children and 
        adults.
            (4) Establish a partnership with the Regional Center of 
        Excellence on Nutrition Education of the Department of 
        Agriculture to provide any relevant nutrition information for 
        lead mitigation, including--
                    (A) identifying and implementing best practices in 
                nutrition education regarding lead-mitigating foods; 
                and
                    (B) making recommendations and conducting outreach 
                to improve access to lead-mitigating foods in the 
                community.
            (5) Conduct education and outreach efforts for the City, 
        including the following:
                    (A) Create a publicly accessible website that 
                provides, at a minimum, details about the health 
                registry for City residents, available testing and 
                other services through the Center for City residents 
                and other communities impacted by lead exposure, any 
                relevant information regarding health and educational 
                impacts of lead exposure, any relevant information on 
                mitigation services, and any research conducted through 
                the Center.
                    (B) Conduct regular meetings in the City to discuss 
                the ongoing impact of lead exposure on residents and 
                solicit community input regarding ongoing mitigation 
                needs.
                    (C) Establish a navigation program to connect City 
                residents to available Federal, State, and local 
                resources and programs that assist with cognitive, 
                developmental, and health problems associated with lead 
                exposure.
    (f) Report.--Biannually, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committees on Finance, Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, and 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate and the Committees 
on Education and the Workforce, Energy and Commerce, and Agriculture of 
the House of Representatives a report--
            (1) assessing the impacts of the Center on City health and 
        education systems and outcomes;
            (2) describing any research conducted by or with the 
        Center; and
            (3) making any recommendations for the City, State, or 
        other communities impacted by lead exposure, as appropriate.

SEC. 5. ADDITIONAL GRANT PROGRAMS.

    (a) Department of Labor Grant Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--Using funds made available under 
        section 7(a), the Secretary of Labor shall make grants to 
        entities serving the residents in the City for use in 
        accordance with this subsection.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds awarded through a grant under 
        subsection (a) may be used--
                    (A) for expanded youth employment within the City; 
                and
                    (B) for workforce training grants, literacy 
                programs and registered apprenticeship programs within 
                the City.
    (b) Department of Health and Human Services Grant Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--Using funds made available under 
        section 7(a), the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
        make grants to entities serving the residents in the City for 
        use in accordance with this subsection.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds awarded through a grant under 
        subsection (a) may be used--
                    (A) to support and create school-based health 
                centers within the City;
                    (B) to support those with issues related to lead 
                exposure within the City; and
                    (C) for universal head start and early head start 
                for children within the City.
    (c) Department of Education Grant Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--Using funds made available under 
        section 7(a), the Secretary of Education shall make grants to 
        entities serving the residents in the City for use in 
        accordance with this subsection.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds awarded through a grant under 
        subsection (a) may be used--
                    (A) to reduce class size including hiring 
                additional personnel, construction, repairs and 
                improvements to structures, and any other expenses 
                related to improving academic achievement within the 
                City;
                    (B) for 21st Century Community Learning Centers to 
                provide expanded afterschool programming within the 
                City;
                    (C) to create a promise neighborhood program within 
                the City;
                    (D) to hire personnel and support children eligible 
                for funding through the Individuals with Disabilities 
                Education Act within the City;
                    (E) for career, technical, and adult education 
                within the City; and
                    (F) to expand Pell Grant access for children within 
                the City.
    (d) Department of Commerce Grant Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--Using funds made available under 
        section 7(a), the Secretary of Commerce shall make grants to 
        entities serving the residents in the City for use in 
        accordance with this subsection.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds awarded through a grant under 
        subsection (a) may be used--
                    (A) for economic development assistance programs 
                within the City; and
                    (B) for minority business development within the 
                City.
    (e) Department of Justice Grant Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--Using funds made available under 
        section 7(a), the Attorney General shall make grants to 
        entities serving the residents in the City for use in 
        accordance with this subsection.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds awarded through a grant under 
        subsection (a) may be used for juvenile delinquency prevention 
        within the City.
    (f) Department of Housing and Urban Development.--
            (1) Establishment.--Using funds made available under 
        section 7(a), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, 
        acting through the head of the Office of Lead Hazard Control 
        and Healthy Homes, shall make grants to entities serving the 
        residents in the City for use in accordance with this 
        subsection.
            (2) Use of funds.--Funds awarded through a grant under 
        subsection (a) may be used for lead hazard reduction in 
        drinking water within the City.

SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of Flint, 
        Michigan.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Michigan.

SEC. 7. FUNDING.

    (a) In General.--There is appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until the date 
that is 10 years after the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (1) to carry out section 1420A of the Safe Drinking Water 
        Act (as added by section 2), $385,000,000;
            (2) to carry out section 4, $100,000,000;
            (3) to carry out section 5(a)(2)(A), $10,000,000;
            (4) to carry out section 5(a)(2)(B), $10,000,000;
            (5) to carry out section 5(b)(2)(A), $5,000,000;
            (6) to carry out section 5(b)(2)(B), $5,000,000;
            (7) to carry out section 5(b)(2)(C), $125,000,000;
            (8) to carry out section 5(c)(2)(A), $25,000,000;
            (9) to carry out section 5(c)(2)(B), $25,000,000;
            (10) to carry out section 5(c)(2)(C), $5,000,000;
            (11) to carry out section 5(c)(2)(D), $5,000,000;
            (12) to carry out section 5(c)(2)(E), $5,000,000;
            (13) to carry out section 5(c)(2)(F), $25,000,000;
            (14) to carry out section 5(d)(2)(A), $12,500,000;
            (15) to carry out section 5(d)(2)(B), $12,500,000;
            (16) to carry out section 5(e)(2), $5,000,000; and
            (17) to carry out section 5(f)(2), $5,000,000.
    (b) Matching Requirement.--As a condition of any entity receiving a 
grant under section 4 or 5, the State shall be required to provide 
funds from non-Federal sources in an amount that is at least equal to 
the amount provided by the Federal Government.

SEC. 8. EMERGENCY DESIGNATION.

    (a) In General.--The amounts provided by section 7 are designated 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of the Statutory 
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(g)).
    (b) Designation in Senate.--In the Senate, the amounts provided by 
section 7 are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 403(a) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent 
resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.

SEC. 9. EMERGENCY EXPANSION OF THE SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION 
              PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN (WIC).

    Section 17(d)(3)(iii) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
1786(d)(3)(iii)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``A State'' and inserting the following:
                                    ``(I) In general.--A State''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                                    ``(II) State-of-emergency 
                                exception.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--With 
                                        respect to participant children 
                                        who reside in a geographic area 
                                        that has been declared to be in 
                                        a state of emergency, a State 
                                        may elect to certify such 
                                        children during a period that 
                                        ends on the earlier of--

                                                    ``(AA) the 10th 
                                                birthday of the 
                                                children; or

                                                    ``(BB) the date 
                                                that is 5 years after 
                                                the last day of such 
                                                state of emergency.

                                            ``(bb) Requirement.--Each 
                                        State that elects to certify 
                                        children under item (aa) shall 
                                        ensure that participant 
                                        children receive required 
                                        health and nutrition 
                                        assessments.''.
                                 <all>
