[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4799 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4799

  To hold the salaries of Members of the House of Representatives in 
  escrow if the House does not pass all of the regular appropriation 
bills for a fiscal year prior to the beginning of that fiscal year, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 17, 2016

  Mr. Jolly introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                   Committee on House Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To hold the salaries of Members of the House of Representatives in 
  escrow if the House does not pass all of the regular appropriation 
bills for a fiscal year prior to the beginning of that fiscal year, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Do Your Job or Don't Get Paid Act''.

SEC. 2. HOLDING SALARIES OF MEMBERS OF HOUSE IN ESCROW UPON FAILURE TO 
              PASS ALL REGULAR APPROPRIATION BILLS.

    (a) Holding Salaries in Escrow.--If by October 1 of any calendar 
year (beginning with 2016), the House of Representatives has not passed 
all of the regular appropriation bills for the fiscal year which begins 
on that date, during the period described in subsection (b) the Chief 
Administrative Officer (or an employee of the Office of the Chief 
Administrative Officer who is designated by the Chief Administrative 
Officer to carry out this Act) shall deposit in an escrow account all 
payments otherwise required to be made during such period for the 
compensation of Members of the House, and shall release such payments 
to the Members only upon the expiration of such period.
    (b) Period Described.--With respect to a calendar year, the period 
described in this subsection is the period which begins on October 1 of 
the calendar year and ends on the earlier of--
            (1) the first day by which the House of Representatives has 
        passed all of the regular appropriation bills for the fiscal 
        year which begins on that date; or
            (2) the last day of the Congress during which that calendar 
        year occurs.
    (c) Permitting Passage of Combination of Bills.--For purposes of 
this section, the House shall be considered to have passed all of the 
regular appropriation bills for a fiscal year if the House has passed 
each such bill individually or in combination with any other such 
bills.

SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATION OF ESCROW.

    (a) Withholding and Remittance of Amounts From Payments Held in 
Escrow.--The Chief Administrative Officer shall provide for the same 
withholding and remittance with respect to a payment deposited in an 
escrow account under section 2 that would apply to the payment if the 
payment were not subject to such section.
    (b) Role of Secretary of the Treasury.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall provide the Chief Administrative Officer with such 
assistance as may be necessary to enable the Chief Administrative 
Officer to carry out this Act.

SEC. 4. RELEASE OF AMOUNTS AT END OF A CONGRESS.

    In order to ensure that this Act is carried out in a manner 
consistent with the twenty-seventh article of amendment to the 
Constitution of the United States, the Chief Administrative Officer 
shall release for payments to Members of the House of Representatives 
any amounts remaining in any escrow account under this Act on the last 
day of the Congress during which the amounts were deposited in such 
account.

SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act--
            (1) the term ``Chief Administrative Officer'' means the 
        Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives;
            (2) the term ``Member'' includes a Delegate or Resident 
        Commissioner to the Congress; and
            (3) the term ``regular appropriation bill'' means any 
        annual appropriation bill which, with respect to the Congress 
        involved, is under the jurisdiction of a single subcommittee of 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
        (pursuant to the Rules of the House of Representatives for that 
        Congress).
                                 <all>
