[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 822 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 136
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 822

                          [Report No. 114-686]

   Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the House 
 amendment to the bill (S. 764) to reauthorize and amend the National 
 Sea Grant College Program Act, and for other purposes; providing for 
 consideration of the bill (S. 304) to improve motor vehicle safety by 
     encouraging the sharing of certain information; and waiving a 
 requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to consideration 
      of certain resolutions reported from the Committee on Rules.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 12, 2016

     Ms. Foxx, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the House 
 amendment to the bill (S. 764) to reauthorize and amend the National 
 Sea Grant College Program Act, and for other purposes; providing for 
 consideration of the bill (S. 304) to improve motor vehicle safety by 
     encouraging the sharing of certain information; and waiving a 
 requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to consideration 
      of certain resolutions reported from the Committee on Rules.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (S. 764) to reauthorize 
and amend the National Sea Grant College Program Act, and for other 
purposes, with the Senate amendment to the House amendment thereto, and 
to consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a 
motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Agriculture or his 
designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment to the House 
amendment. The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as 
read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Agriculture. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the motion to adoption without intervening motion.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (S. 304) to improve motor vehicle safety 
by encouraging the sharing of certain information. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. An amendment in the 
nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 
114-61 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, 
as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, 
to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce; and (2) one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-
thirds vote to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the 
same day it is presented to the House is waived with respect to any 
resolution reported on the legislative day of July 14, 2016, or July 
15, 2016.
                                                 House Calendar No. 136

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 822

                          [Report No. 114-686]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

   Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the House 
 amendment to the bill (S. 764) to reauthorize and amend the National 
 Sea Grant College Program Act, and for other purposes; providing for 
 consideration of the bill (S. 304) to improve motor vehicle safety by 
     encouraging the sharing of certain information; and waiving a 
 requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to consideration 
      of certain resolutions reported from the Committee on Rules.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 12, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
