[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1558 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 115
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1558

                          [Report No. 114-63]

  Making appropriations for Department of Defense for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 11, 2015

    Mr. Cochran, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  Making appropriations for Department of Defense for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2016, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Army on active duty (except members of reserve components provided 
for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of the Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of 
Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $41,038,287,000.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Navy on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for 
elsewhere), midshipmen, and aviation cadets; for members of the Reserve 
Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of 
Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $27,983,432,000.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Marine Corps on active duty (except members of the Reserve provided 
for elsewhere); and for payments pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 
97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to the Department of 
Defense Military Retirement Fund, $12,953,400,000.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on 
deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all 
expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of 
temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of 
the Air Force on active duty (except members of reserve components 
provided for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of 
the Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to 
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and 
to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $27,756,536,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army Reserve on active duty under 
sections 10211, 10302, and 3038 of title 10, United States Code, or 
while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 
12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, 
and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States 
Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement 
Fund, $4,418,714,000.

                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Navy Reserve on active duty under 
section 10211 of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on 
active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 
10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty, and expenses authorized by 
section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the 
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, $1,849,541,000.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Marine Corps Reserve on active 
duty under section 10211 of title 10, United States Code, or while 
serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 
12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve 
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and for 
members of the Marine Corps platoon leaders class, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
$697,839,000.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air Force Reserve on active duty 
under sections 10211, 10305, and 8038 of title 10, United States Code, 
or while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, 
United States Code, in connection with performing duty specified in 
section 12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing 
reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or 
other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, 
United States Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense 
Military Retirement Fund, $1,676,551,000.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Army National Guard while on duty 
under sections 10211, 10302, or 12402 of title 10 or section 708 of 
title 32, United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 
12301(d) of title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, 
in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
$7,862,122,000.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and 
related expenses for personnel of the Air National Guard on duty under 
sections 10211, 10305, or 12402 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, 
United States Code, or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of 
title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in 
connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 
10, United States Code, or while undergoing training, or while 
performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses 
authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United States Code; and for 
payments to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund, 
$3,205,691,000.

                                TITLE II

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Army, as authorized by law, 
$27,285,099,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $12,478,000 can be used 
for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the 
approval or authority of the Secretary of the Army, and payments may be 
made on his certificate of necessity for confidential military 
purposes.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Navy and the Marine Corps, as 
authorized by law, $25,933,099,000:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$15,055,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to 
be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary of the Navy, 
and payments may be made on his certificate of necessity for 
confidential military purposes.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Marine Corps, as authorized by law, 
$5,277,785,000.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of the Air Force, as authorized by law, 
$26,144,988,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $7,699,000 can be used 
for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended on the 
approval or authority of the Secretary of the Air Force, and payments 
may be made on his certificate of necessity for confidential military 
purposes.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the Department 
of Defense (other than the military departments), as authorized by law, 
$32,124,431,000:  Provided, That not more than $15,000,000 may be used 
for the Combatant Commander Initiative Fund authorized under section 
166a of title 10, United States Code:  Provided further, That not to 
exceed $36,000,000 can be used for emergencies and extraordinary 
expenses, to be expended on the approval or authority of the Secretary 
of Defense, and payments may be made on his certificate of necessity 
for confidential military purposes:  Provided further, That of the 
funds provided under this heading, not less than $35,045,000 shall be 
made available for the Procurement Technical Assistance Cooperative 
Agreement Program, of which not less than $3,600,000 shall be available 
for centers defined in 10 U.S.C. 2411(1)(D):  Provided further, That 
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act 
may be used to plan or implement the consolidation of a budget or 
appropriations liaison office of the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense, the office of the Secretary of a military department, or the 
service headquarters of one of the Armed Forces into a legislative 
affairs or legislative liaison office:  Provided further, That 
$9,031,000, to remain available until expended, is available only for 
expenses relating to certain classified activities, and may be 
transferred as necessary by the Secretary of Defense to operation and 
maintenance appropriations or research, development, test and 
evaluation appropriations, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred:  
Provided further, That any ceiling on the investment item unit cost of 
items that may be purchased with operation and maintenance funds shall 
not apply to the funds described in the preceding proviso:  Provided 
further, That the transfer authority provided under this heading is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this 
Act.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Army Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications, $2,679,992,000.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Navy Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications, $998,758,000.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Marine Corps Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications, $277,036,000.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and 
administration, of the Air Force Reserve; repair of facilities and 
equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; 
care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and 
equipment; and communications, $3,056,357,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the Army 
National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related 
expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs 
to structures and facilities; hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
personnel services in the National Guard Bureau; travel expenses (other 
than mileage), as authorized by law for Army personnel on active duty, 
for Army National Guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders 
while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard Bureau 
regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief, National Guard 
Bureau; supplying and equipping the Army National Guard as authorized 
by law; and expenses of repair, modification, maintenance, and issue of 
supplies and equipment (including aircraft), $6,746,302,000.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the Air 
National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related 
expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs 
to structures and facilities; transportation of things, hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; supplying and equipping the Air National 
Guard, as authorized by law; expenses for repair, modification, 
maintenance, and issue of supplies and equipment, including those 
furnished from stocks under the control of agencies of the Department 
of Defense; travel expenses (other than mileage) on the same basis as 
authorized by law for Air National Guard personnel on active Federal 
duty, for Air National Guard commanders while inspecting units in 
compliance with National Guard Bureau regulations when specifically 
authorized by the Chief, National Guard Bureau, $6,951,010,000.

          United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces

    For salaries and expenses necessary for the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Armed Forces, $14,078,000, of which not to exceed 
$5,000 may be used for official representation purposes.

                    Environmental Restoration, Army

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Army, $234,829,000, to remain available 
until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of the Army shall, 
upon determining that such funds are required for environmental 
restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of 
unsafe buildings and debris of the Department of the Army, or for 
similar purposes, transfer the funds made available by this 
appropriation to other appropriations made available to the Department 
of the Army, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination that all or 
part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary 
for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back 
to this appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer 
authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                    Environmental Restoration, Navy

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Navy, $292,453,000, to remain available 
until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of the Navy shall, 
upon determining that such funds are required for environmental 
restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of 
unsafe buildings and debris of the Department of the Navy, or for 
similar purposes, transfer the funds made available by this 
appropriation to other appropriations made available to the Department 
of the Navy, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to which 
transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination that all or 
part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary 
for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back 
to this appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority 
provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer 
authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                  Environmental Restoration, Air Force

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Air Force, $368,131,000, to remain 
available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of the Air 
Force shall, upon determining that such funds are required for 
environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, 
removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the Department of the Air 
Force, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds made available by 
this appropriation to other appropriations made available to the 
Department of the Air Force, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to 
which transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination that 
all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not 
necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of Defense, $8,232,000, to remain available 
until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall, upon 
determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, 
reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings 
and debris of the Department of Defense, or for similar purposes, 
transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other 
appropriations made available to the Department of Defense, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
time period as the appropriations to which transferred:  Provided 
further, That upon a determination that all or part of the funds 
transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes 
provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority provided 
under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided elsewhere in this Act.

         Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense Sites

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of the Army, $233,717,000, to remain available 
until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of the Army shall, 
upon determining that such funds are required for environmental 
restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of 
unsafe buildings and debris at sites formerly used by the Department of 
Defense, transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to 
other appropriations made available to the Department of the Army, to 
be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the 
same time period as the appropriations to which transferred:  Provided 
further, That upon a determination that all or part of the funds 
transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes 
provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority provided 
under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided elsewhere in this Act.

             Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid

    For expenses relating to the Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and 
Civic Aid programs of the Department of Defense (consisting of the 
programs provided under sections 401, 402, 404, 407, 2557, and 2561 of 
title 10, United States Code), $100,266,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

                  Cooperative Threat Reduction Account

    For assistance to the republics of the former Soviet Union and, 
with appropriate authorization by the Department of Defense and 
Department of State, to countries outside of the former Soviet Union, 
including assistance provided by contract or by grants, for 
facilitating the elimination and the safe and secure transportation and 
storage of nuclear, chemical and other weapons; for establishing 
programs to prevent the proliferation of weapons, weapons components, 
and weapon-related technology and expertise; for programs relating to 
the training and support of defense and military personnel for 
demilitarization and protection of weapons, weapons components, and 
weapons technology and expertise, and for defense and military 
contacts, $358,496,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

      Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development 
Fund, $84,140,000 to remain available until September 30, 2017:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer funds provided 
herein to appropriations for military personnel; for operation and 
maintenance; for procurement; and for research, development, test and 
evaluation to accomplish purposes as provided for in section 1705 of 
title 10, United States Code:  Provided further, That the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for obligation for 
the same time period and for the same purpose as the appropriation to 
which transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination that 
all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not 
necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.

                               TITLE III

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes, $5,465,751,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2018.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance, ground 
handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized 
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, 
including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and 
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing 
purposes, $1,667,167,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2018.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
weapons and tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including ordnance, 
spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the 
land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; 
and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
$1,914,446,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2018.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
ammunition facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, United 
States Code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes, $1,247,426,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2018.

                        Other Procurement, Army

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
vehicles, including tactical, support, and non-tracked combat vehicles; 
the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; 
communications and electronic equipment; other support equipment; spare 
parts, ordnance, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the 
land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of 
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; 
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; 
and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, 
$5,648,874,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2018.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, spare parts, 
and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of public 
and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and such 
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction 
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and 
installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and 
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned 
equipment layaway, $17,392,174,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2018.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For construction, procurement, production, modification, and 
modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, and related 
support equipment including spare parts, and accessories therefor; 
expansion of public and private plants, including the land necessary 
therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway, $3,172,822,000, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 2018.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
ammunition facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, United 
States Code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes, $728,741,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2018.

                   Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy

    For expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition, or 
conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including armor and 
armament thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and machine tools and 
installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; procurement of 
critical, long lead time components and designs for vessels to be 
constructed or converted in the future; and expansion of public and 
private plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon 
prior to approval of title, as follows:
            Carrier Replacement Program, $1,634,701,000;
            Carrier Replacement Program (AP), $683,200,000;
            Virginia Class Submarine, $3,346,370,000;
            Virginia Class Submarine (AP), $1,993,740,000;
            CVN Refueling Overhauls, $678,274,000;
            CVN Refueling Overhauls (AP), $14,951,000;
            DDG-1000 Program, $433,404,000;
            DDG-51 Destroyer, $4,149,703,000;
            Littoral Combat Ship, $1,331,591,000;
            LPD-17, $550,000,000;
            Afloat Forward Staging Base (AP), $97,000,000;
            LHA Replacement (AP), $476,543,000;
            LX(R) (AP), $250,000,000;
            Joint High Speed Vessel, $225,000,000;
            TAO Fleet Oiler, $674,190,000;
            T-ATS(X) Fleet Tug, $75,000,000;
            LCU Replacement, $34,000,000;
            Moored Training Ship (AP), $138,200,000;
            Ship to Shore Connector, $204,630,000;
            Service Craft, $30,014,000;
            LCAC Service Life Extension Program, $80,738,000;
            YP Craft Maintenance/ROH/SLEP, $21,838,000; and
            For outfitting, post delivery, conversions, and first 
        destination transportation, $663,970,000.
            Completion of Prior Year Shipbuilding Programs, 
        $389,305,000.
    In all: $18,176,362,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2020:  Provided, That additional obligations may be 
incurred after September 30, 2020, for engineering services, tests, 
evaluations, and other such budgeted work that must be performed in the 
final stage of ship construction:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided under this heading for the construction or conversion of 
any naval vessel to be constructed in shipyards in the United States 
shall be expended in foreign facilities for the construction of major 
components of such vessel:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
provided under this heading shall be used for the construction of any 
naval vessel in foreign shipyards.

                        Other Procurement, Navy

    For procurement, production, and modernization of support equipment 
and materials not otherwise provided for, Navy ordnance (except 
ordnance for new aircraft, new ships, and ships authorized for 
conversion); the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only; expansion of public and private plants, including the land 
necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and 
machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and 
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, $6,329,750,000, to 
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2018.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

    For expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture, and 
modification of missiles, armament, military equipment, spare parts, 
and accessories therefor; plant equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools, and installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; vehicles 
for the Marine Corps, including the purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only; and expansion of public and private 
plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests 
therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to 
approval of title, $1,239,618,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2018.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of aircraft and 
equipment, including armor and armament, specialized ground handling 
equipment, and training devices, spare parts, and accessories therefor; 
specialized equipment; expansion of public and private plants, 
Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, 
erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve 
plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other 
expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and 
transportation of things, $15,890,661,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2018.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of missiles, 
rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and accessories 
therefor; ground handling equipment, and training devices; expansion of 
public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and installation 
thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of 
land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, 
may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval 
of title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes 
including rents and transportation of things, $2,965,869,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2018.

                      Space Procurement, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, and modification of spacecraft, 
rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and accessories 
therefor; ground handling equipment, and training devices; expansion of 
public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and installation 
thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of 
land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, 
may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval 
of title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes 
including rents and transportation of things, $2,891,159,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2018.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For construction, procurement, production, and modification of 
ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and 
training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including 
ammunition facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, United 
States Code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing 
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and 
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and 
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine 
tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for 
the foregoing purposes, $1,797,343,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2018.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For procurement and modification of equipment (including ground 
guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground electronic and 
communication equipment), and supplies, materials, and spare parts 
therefor, not otherwise provided for; the purchase of passenger motor 
vehicles for replacement only; lease of passenger motor vehicles; and 
expansion of public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and 
installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and 
acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and 
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted 
thereon, prior to approval of title; reserve plant and Government and 
contractor-owned equipment layaway, $17,997,359,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2018.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of 
Defense (other than the military departments) necessary for 
procurement, production, and modification of equipment, supplies, 
materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided for; the 
purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; expansion of 
public and private plants, equipment, and installation thereof in such 
plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land for the 
foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be 
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of 
title; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment 
layaway, $5,211,532,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2018.

                    Defense Production Act Purchases

    For activities by the Department of Defense pursuant to sections 
108, 301, 302, and 303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
App. 2078, 2091, 2092, and 2093), $76,680,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                                TITLE IV

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, 
$7,096,935,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2017.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, 
$18,236,645,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2017:  Provided, That funds appropriated in this paragraph which are 
available for the V-22 may be used to meet unique operational 
requirements of the Special Operations Forces.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, 
development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, 
rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, 
$25,874,116,000, to remain available for obligation until September 30, 
2017.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department of 
Defense (other than the military departments), necessary for basic and 
applied scientific research, development, test and evaluation; advanced 
research projects as may be designated and determined by the Secretary 
of Defense, pursuant to law; maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and 
operation of facilities and equipment, $18,926,433,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That, of 
the funds made available in this paragraph, $400,000,000 for the 
Defense Rapid Innovation Program shall only be available for expenses, 
not otherwise provided for, to include program management and 
oversight, to conduct research, development, test and evaluation to 
include proof of concept demonstration; engineering, testing, and 
validation; and transition to full-scale production:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Defense may transfer funds provided herein for 
the Defense Rapid Innovation Program to appropriations for research, 
development, test and evaluation to accomplish the purpose provided 
herein:  Provided further, That this transfer authority is in addition 
to any other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
 Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 
30 days prior to making transfers from this appropriation, notify the 
congressional defense committees in writing of the details of any such 
transfer.

                Operational Test and Evaluation, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
independent activities of the Director, Operational Test and 
Evaluation, in the direction and supervision of operational test and 
evaluation, including initial operational test and evaluation which is 
conducted prior to, and in support of, production decisions; joint 
operational testing and evaluation; and administrative expenses in 
connection therewith, $190,558,000, to remain available for obligation 
until September 30, 2017.

                                TITLE V

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

    For the Defense Working Capital Funds, $1,779,568,000.

                     National Defense Sealift Fund

    For National Defense Sealift Fund programs, projects, and 
activities, and for expenses of the National Defense Reserve Fleet, as 
established by section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 
U.S.C. App. 1744), and for the necessary expenses to maintain and 
preserve a U.S.-flag merchant fleet to serve the national security 
needs of the United States, $474,164,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That none of the funds provided in this paragraph 
shall be used to award a new contract that provides for the acquisition 
of any of the following major components unless such components are 
manufactured in the United States: auxiliary equipment, including 
pumps, for all shipboard services; propulsion system components 
(engines, reduction gears, and propellers); shipboard cranes; and 
spreaders for shipboard cranes:  Provided further, That the exercise of 
an option in a contract awarded through the obligation of previously 
appropriated funds shall not be considered to be the award of a new 
contract:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this 
paragraph shall be used to award a new contract for the construction, 
acquisition, or conversion of vessels, including procurement of 
critical, long lead time components and designs for vessels to be 
constructed or converted in the future:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of the military department responsible for such procurement 
may waive the restrictions in the first proviso on a case-by-case basis 
by certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic supplies 
are not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on a 
timely basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to 
acquire capability for national security purposes.

                                TITLE VI

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and health 
care programs of the Department of Defense as authorized by law, 
$32,267,914,000; of which $30,103,891,000 shall be for operation and 
maintenance, of which not to exceed one percent shall remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 2017, and of which up to 
$14,812,040,000 may be available for contracts entered into under the 
TRICARE program; of which $365,390,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2018, shall be for procurement; and of 
which $1,798,633,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2017, shall be for research, development, test and 
evaluation.

           Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense

    For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the 
destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical agents 
and munitions in accordance with the provisions of section 1412 of the 
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for 
the destruction of other chemical warfare materials that are not in the 
chemical weapon stockpile, $699,821,000, of which $118,198,000 shall be 
for operation and maintenance, of which no less than $50,743,000 shall 
be for the Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program, 
consisting of $21,289,000 for activities on military installations and 
$29,454,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, to assist 
State and local governments; $2,281,000 shall be for procurement, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018, of which $2,281,000 shall be 
for the Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program to assist 
State and local governments; and $579,342,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017, shall be for research, development, test and 
evaluation, of which $569,339,000 shall only be for the Assembled 
Chemical Weapons Alternatives program.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the Department 
of Defense, for transfer to appropriations available to the Department 
of Defense for military personnel of the reserve components serving 
under the provisions of title 10 and title 32, United States Code; for 
operation and maintenance; for procurement; and for research, 
development, test and evaluation, $1,013,598,000, of which $681,109,000 
shall be for counter-narcotics support; $119,589,000 shall be for the 
drug demand reduction program; $192,900,000 shall be for the National 
Guard counter-drug program; and $20,000,000 shall be for the National 
Guard counter-drug schools program:  Provided, That the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for obligation for 
the same time period and for the same purpose as the appropriation to 
which transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination that 
all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not 
necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be 
transferred back to this appropriation:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any 
other transfer authority contained elsewhere in this Act.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $312,559,000, of which $310,459,000 shall be for operation and 
maintenance, of which not to exceed $700,000 is available for 
emergencies and extraordinary expenses to be expended on the approval 
or authority of the Inspector General, and payments may be made on the 
Inspector General's certificate of necessity for confidential military 
purposes; and of which $2,100,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2017, shall be for research, development, test and evaluation.

                               TITLE VII

                            RELATED AGENCIES

   Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund

    For payment to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and 
Disability System Fund, to maintain the proper funding level for 
continuing the operation of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement 
and Disability System, $514,000,000.

               Intelligence Community Management Account

    For necessary expenses of the Intelligence Community Management 
Account, $513,923,000.

                               TITLE VIII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 8001.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by 
the Congress.
    Sec. 8002.  During the current fiscal year, provisions of law 
prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or employment of, any 
person not a citizen of the United States shall not apply to personnel 
of the Department of Defense:  Provided, That salary increases granted 
to direct and indirect hire foreign national employees of the 
Department of Defense funded by this Act shall not be at a rate in 
excess of the percentage increase authorized by law for civilian 
employees of the Department of Defense whose pay is computed under the 
provisions of section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, or at a rate 
in excess of the percentage increase provided by the appropriate host 
nation to its own employees, whichever is higher:  Provided further, 
That this section shall not apply to Department of Defense foreign 
service national employees serving at United States diplomatic missions 
whose pay is set by the Department of State under the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980:  Provided further, That the limitations of this provision 
shall not apply to foreign national employees of the Department of 
Defense in the Republic of Turkey.
    Sec. 8003.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, 
unless expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 8004.  No more than 20 percent of the appropriations in this 
Act which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year 
shall be obligated during the last 2 months of the fiscal year:  
Provided, That this section shall not apply to obligations for support 
of active duty training of reserve components or summer camp training 
of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8005.  Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that 
such action is necessary in the national interest, he may, with the 
approval of the Office of Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed 
$5,000,000,000 of working capital funds of the Department of Defense or 
funds made available in this Act to the Department of Defense for 
military functions (except military construction) between such 
appropriations or funds or any subdivision thereof, to be merged with 
and to be available for the same purposes, and for the same time 
period, as the appropriation or fund to which transferred:  Provided, 
That such authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher 
priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements, than those 
for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item for 
which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the Congress 
promptly of all transfers made pursuant to this authority or any other 
authority in this Act:  Provided further, That no part of the funds in 
this Act shall be available to prepare or present a request to the 
Committees on Appropriations for reprogramming of funds, unless for 
higher priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements, than 
those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item 
for which reprogramming is requested has been denied by the Congress:  
Provided further, That a request for multiple reprogrammings of funds 
using authority provided in this section shall be made prior to June 
30, 2016:  Provided further, That transfers among military personnel 
appropriations shall not be taken into account for purposes of the 
limitation on the amount of funds that may be transferred under this 
section.
    Sec. 8006. (a) With regard to the list of specific programs, 
projects, and activities (and the dollar amounts and adjustments to 
budget activities corresponding to such programs, projects, and 
activities) contained in the tables titled ``Committee Recommended 
Adjustments'' in the explanatory statement regarding this Act, the 
obligation and expenditure of amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act for those programs, projects, and activities for 
which the amounts appropriated exceed the amounts requested are hereby 
required by law to be carried out in the manner provided by such tables 
to the same extent as if the tables were included in the text of this 
Act.
    (b) Amounts specified in the referenced tables described in 
subsection (a) shall not be treated as subdivisions of appropriations 
for purposes of section 8005 of this Act:  Provided, That section 8005 
shall apply when transfers of the amounts described in subsection (a) 
occur between appropriation accounts.
    Sec. 8007. (a) Not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Department of Defense shall submit a report to the congressional 
defense committees to establish the baseline for application of 
reprogramming and transfer authorities for fiscal year 2016:  Provided, 
That the report shall include--
            (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
        to display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
        appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
            (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation both 
        by budget activity and program, project, and activity as 
        detailed in the Budget Appendix; and
            (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 8005 of this Act, none of the funds 
provided in this Act shall be available for reprogramming or transfer 
until the report identified in subsection (a) is submitted to the 
congressional defense committees, unless the Secretary of Defense 
certifies in writing to the congressional defense committees that such 
reprogramming or transfer is necessary as an emergency requirement:  
Provided, That this subsection shall not apply to transfers from the 
following appropriations accounts:
            (1) ``Environmental Restoration, Army''.
            (2) ``Environmental Restoration, Navy''.
            (3) ``Environmental Restoration, Air Force''.
            (4) ``Environmental Restoration, Defense-wide''.
            (5) ``Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense 
        Sites''.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8008.  During the current fiscal year, cash balances in 
working capital funds of the Department of Defense established pursuant 
to section 2208 of title 10, United States Code, may be maintained in 
only such amounts as are necessary at any time for cash disbursements 
to be made from such funds:  Provided, That transfers may be made 
between such funds:  Provided further, That transfers may be made 
between working capital funds and the ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, 
Defense'' appropriation and the ``Operation and Maintenance'' 
appropriation accounts in such amounts as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense, with the approval of the Office of Management and 
Budget, except that such transfers may not be made unless the Secretary 
of Defense has notified the Congress of the proposed transfer:  
Provided further, That except in amounts equal to the amounts 
appropriated to working capital funds in this Act, no obligations may 
be made against a working capital fund to procure or increase the value 
of war reserve material inventory, unless the Secretary of Defense has 
notified the Congress prior to any such obligation.
    Sec. 8009.  Funds appropriated by this Act may not be used to 
initiate a special access program without prior notification 30 
calendar days in advance to the congressional defense committees.
    Sec. 8010.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available to initiate: (1) a multiyear contract that employs economic 
order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year of 
the contract or that includes an unfunded contingent liability in 
excess of $20,000,000; or (2) a contract for advance procurement 
leading to a multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity 
procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year, unless the 
congressional defense committees have been notified at least 30 days in 
advance of the proposed contract award:  Provided, That no part of any 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be available to initiate a 
multiyear contract for which the economic order quantity advance 
procurement is not funded at least to the limits of the Government's 
liability:  Provided further, That no part of any appropriation 
contained in this Act shall be available to initiate multiyear 
procurement contracts for any systems or component thereof if the value 
of the multiyear contract would exceed $500,000,000 unless specifically 
provided in this Act:  Provided further, That no multiyear procurement 
contract can be terminated without 30-day prior notification to the 
congressional defense committees:  Provided further, That the execution 
of multiyear authority shall require the use of a present value 
analysis to determine lowest cost compared to an annual procurement:  
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act may be 
used for a multiyear contract executed after the date of the enactment 
of this Act unless in the case of any such contract--
            (1) the Secretary of Defense has submitted to Congress a 
        budget request for full funding of units to be procured through 
        the contract and, in the case of a contract for procurement of 
        aircraft, that includes, for any aircraft unit to be procured 
        through the contract for which procurement funds are requested 
        in that budget request for production beyond advance 
        procurement activities in the fiscal year covered by the 
        budget, full funding of procurement of such unit in that fiscal 
        year;
            (2) cancellation provisions in the contract do not include 
        consideration of recurring manufacturing costs of the 
        contractor associated with the production of unfunded units to 
        be delivered under the contract;
            (3) the contract provides that payments to the contractor 
        under the contract shall not be made in advance of incurred 
        costs on funded units; and
            (4) the contract does not provide for a price adjustment 
        based on a failure to award a follow-on contract.
    Sec. 8011.  Within the funds appropriated for the operation and 
maintenance of the Armed Forces, funds are hereby appropriated pursuant 
to section 401 of title 10, United States Code, for humanitarian and 
civic assistance costs under chapter 20 of title 10, United States 
Code. Such funds may also be obligated for humanitarian and civic 
assistance costs incidental to authorized operations and pursuant to 
authority granted in section 401 of chapter 20 of title 10, United 
States Code, and these obligations shall be reported as required by 
section 401(d) of title 10, United States Code:  Provided, That funds 
available for operation and maintenance shall be available for 
providing humanitarian and similar assistance by using Civic Action 
Teams in the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands and freely 
associated states of Micronesia, pursuant to the Compact of Free 
Association as authorized by Public Law 99-239:  Provided further, That 
upon a determination by the Secretary of the Army that such action is 
beneficial for graduate medical education programs conducted at Army 
medical facilities located in Hawaii, the Secretary of the Army may 
authorize the provision of medical services at such facilities and 
transportation to such facilities, on a nonreimbursable basis, for 
civilian patients from American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of 
Micronesia, Palau, and Guam.
    Sec. 8012. (a) During fiscal year 2016, the civilian personnel of 
the Department of Defense may not be managed on the basis of any end-
strength, and the management of such personnel during that fiscal year 
shall not be subject to any constraint or limitation (known as an end-
strength) on the number of such personnel who may be employed on the 
last day of such fiscal year.
    (b) The fiscal year 2017 budget request for the Department of 
Defense as well as all justification material and other documentation 
supporting the fiscal year 2017 Department of Defense budget request 
shall be prepared and submitted to the Congress as if subsections (a) 
and (b) of this provision were effective with regard to fiscal year 
2017.
    (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to military 
(civilian) technicians.
    Sec. 8013.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional 
action on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before the 
Congress.
    Sec. 8014.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available for the basic pay and allowances of any member of the Army 
participating as a full-time student and receiving benefits paid by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs from the Department of Defense Education 
Benefits Fund when time spent as a full-time student is credited toward 
completion of a service commitment:  Provided, That this section shall 
not apply to those members who have reenlisted with this option prior 
to October 1, 1987:  Provided further, That this section applies only 
to active components of the Army.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8015.  Funds appropriated in title III of this Act for the 
Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protege Program may be transferred 
to any other appropriation contained in this Act solely for the purpose 
of implementing a Mentor-Protege Program developmental assistance 
agreement pursuant to section 831 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), as 
amended, under the authority of this provision or any other transfer 
authority contained in this Act.
    Sec. 8016.  Of the amounts appropriated for ``Working Capital Fund, 
Army'', $145,000,000 shall be available to maintain competitive rates 
at the arsenals.
    Sec. 8017.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense may be used to demilitarize or dispose of M-1 Carbines, M-1 
Garand rifles, M-14 rifles, .22 caliber rifles, .30 caliber rifles, or 
M-1911 pistols, or to demilitarize or destroy small arms ammunition or 
ammunition components that are not otherwise prohibited from commercial 
sale under Federal law, unless the small arms ammunition or ammunition 
components are certified by the Secretary of the Army or designee as 
unserviceable, unsuitable, or unsafe for further use.
    Sec. 8018.  No more than $500,000 of the funds appropriated or made 
available in this Act shall be used during a single fiscal year for any 
single relocation of an organization, unit, activity or function of the 
Department of Defense into or within the National Capital Region:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a 
case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the congressional 
defense committees that such a relocation is required in the best 
interest of the Government.
    Sec. 8019.  Of the funds made available in this Act, up to 
$15,000,000 may be available for incentive payments authorized by 
section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544):  
Provided, That a prime contractor or a subcontractor at any tier that 
makes a subcontract award to any subcontractor or supplier as defined 
in section 1544 of title 25, United States Code, or a small business 
owned and controlled by an individual or individuals defined under 
section 4221(9) of title 25, United States Code, shall be considered a 
contractor for the purposes of being allowed additional compensation 
under section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544) 
whenever the prime contract or subcontract amount is over $500,000 and 
involves the expenditure of funds appropriated by an Act making 
appropriations for the Department of Defense with respect to any fiscal 
year:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 1906 of title 41, 
United States Code, this section shall be applicable to any Department 
of Defense acquisition of supplies or services, including any contract 
and any subcontract at any tier for acquisition of commercial items 
produced or manufactured, in whole or in part, by any subcontractor or 
supplier defined in section 1544 of title 25, United States Code, or a 
small business owned and controlled by an individual or individuals 
defined under section 4221(9) of title 25, United States Code.
    Sec. 8020.  Funds appropriated by this Act for the Defense Media 
Activity shall not be used for any national or international political 
or psychological activities.
    Sec. 8021.  During the current fiscal year, the Department of 
Defense is authorized to incur obligations of not to exceed 
$350,000,000 for purposes specified in section 2350j(c) of title 10, 
United States Code, in anticipation of receipt of contributions, only 
from the Government of Kuwait, under that section:  Provided, That, 
upon receipt, such contributions from the Government of Kuwait shall be 
credited to the appropriations or fund which incurred such obligations.
    Sec. 8022. (a) Of the funds made available in this Act, not less 
than $39,805,000 shall be available for the Civil Air Patrol 
Corporation, of which--
            (1) $27,711,000 shall be available from ``Operation and 
        Maintenance, Air Force'' to support Civil Air Patrol 
        Corporation operation and maintenance, readiness, counter-drug 
        activities, and drug demand reduction activities involving 
        youth programs;
            (2) $10,417,000 shall be available from ``Aircraft 
        Procurement, Air Force''; and
            (3) $1,677,000 shall be available from ``Other Procurement, 
        Air Force'' for vehicle procurement.
    (b) The Secretary of the Air Force should waive reimbursement for 
any funds used by the Civil Air Patrol for counter-drug activities in 
support of Federal, State, and local government agencies.
    Sec. 8023. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act are 
available to establish a new Department of Defense (department) 
federally funded research and development center (FFRDC), either as a 
new entity, or as a separate entity administrated by an organization 
managing another FFRDC, or as a nonprofit membership corporation 
consisting of a consortium of other FFRDCs and other nonprofit 
entities.
    (b) No member of a Board of Directors, Trustees, Overseers, 
Advisory Group, Special Issues Panel, Visiting Committee, or any 
similar entity of a defense FFRDC, and no paid consultant to any 
defense FFRDC, except when acting in a technical advisory capacity, may 
be compensated for his or her services as a member of such entity, or 
as a paid consultant by more than one FFRDC in a fiscal year:  
Provided, That a member of any such entity referred to previously in 
this subsection shall be allowed travel expenses and per diem as 
authorized under the Federal Joint Travel Regulations, when engaged in 
the performance of membership duties.
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
available to the department from any source during fiscal year 2016 may 
be used by a defense FFRDC, through a fee or other payment mechanism, 
for construction of new buildings, for payment of cost sharing for 
projects funded by Government grants, for absorption of contract 
overruns, or for certain charitable contributions, not to include 
employee participation in community service and/or development:  
Provided, That up to 1 percent of funds provided in this Act for 
support of defense FFRDCs may be used for planning and design of 
scientific or engineering facilities:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees 
15 days in advance of exercising the authority in the previous proviso.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds 
available to the department during fiscal year 2016, not more than 
5,750 staff years of technical effort (staff years) may be funded for 
defense FFRDCs:  Provided, That, of the specific amount referred to 
previously in this subsection, not more than 1,125 staff years may be 
funded for the defense studies and analysis FFRDCs:  Provided further, 
That this subsection shall not apply to staff years funded in the 
National Intelligence Program (NIP) and the Military Intelligence 
Program (MIP).
    (e) The Secretary of Defense shall, with the submission of the 
department's fiscal year 2017 budget request, submit a report 
presenting the specific amounts of staff years of technical effort to 
be allocated for each defense FFRDC during that fiscal year and the 
associated budget estimates.
    (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the total 
amount appropriated in this Act for FFRDCs is hereby reduced by 
$65,000,000.
    Sec. 8024.  None of the funds appropriated or made available in 
this Act shall be used to procure carbon, alloy, or armor steel plate 
for use in any Government-owned facility or property under the control 
of the Department of Defense which were not melted and rolled in the 
United States or Canada:  Provided, That these procurement restrictions 
shall apply to any and all Federal Supply Class 9515, American Society 
of Testing and Materials (ASTM) or American Iron and Steel Institute 
(AISI) specifications of carbon, alloy or armor steel plate:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of the military department responsible for 
the procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by 
certifying in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic supplies are 
not available to meet Department of Defense requirements on a timely 
basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes:  Provided further, That 
these restrictions shall not apply to contracts which are in being as 
of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 8025.  For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
defense committees'' means the Armed Services Committee of the House of 
Representatives, the Armed Services Committee of the Senate, the 
Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate, and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    Sec. 8026.  During the current fiscal year, the Department of 
Defense may acquire the modification, depot maintenance and repair of 
aircraft, vehicles and vessels as well as the production of components 
and other Defense-related articles, through competition between 
Department of Defense depot maintenance activities and private firms:  
Provided, That the Senior Acquisition Executive of the military 
department or Defense Agency concerned, with power of delegation, shall 
certify that successful bids include comparable estimates of all direct 
and indirect costs for both public and private bids:  Provided further, 
That Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76 shall not apply to 
competitions conducted under this section.
    Sec. 8027. (a)(1) If the Secretary of Defense, after consultation 
with the United States Trade Representative, determines that a foreign 
country which is party to an agreement described in paragraph (2) has 
violated the terms of the agreement by discriminating against certain 
types of products produced in the United States that are covered by the 
agreement, the Secretary of Defense shall rescind the Secretary's 
blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with respect to such types of 
products produced in that foreign country.
    (2) An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) is any reciprocal 
defense procurement memorandum of understanding, between the United 
States and a foreign country pursuant to which the Secretary of Defense 
has prospectively waived the Buy American Act for certain products in 
that country.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Congress a report 
on the amount of Department of Defense purchases from foreign entities 
in fiscal year 2016. Such report shall separately indicate the dollar 
value of items for which the Buy American Act was waived pursuant to 
any agreement described in subsection (a)(2), the Trade Agreement Act 
of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), or any international agreement to 
which the United States is a party.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``Buy American Act'' 
means chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    Sec. 8028.  During the current fiscal year, amounts contained in 
the Department of Defense Overseas Military Facility Investment 
Recovery Account established by section 2921(c)(1) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act of 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 
note) shall be available until expended for the payments specified by 
section 2921(c)(2) of that Act.
    Sec. 8029. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may convey at no cost to the Air Force, 
without consideration, to Indian tribes located in the States of 
Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, Oregon, Minnesota, 
and Washington relocatable military housing units located at Grand 
Forks Air Force Base, Malmstrom Air Force Base, Mountain Home Air Force 
Base, Ellsworth Air Force Base, and Minot Air Force Base that are 
excess to the needs of the Air Force.
    (b) The Secretary of the Air Force shall convey, at no cost to the 
Air Force, military housing units under subsection (a) in accordance 
with the request for such units that are submitted to the Secretary by 
the Operation Walking Shield Program on behalf of Indian tribes located 
in the States of Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, 
Oregon, Minnesota, and Washington. Any such conveyance shall be subject 
to the condition that the housing units shall be removed within a 
reasonable period of time, as determined by the Secretary.
    (c) The Operation Walking Shield Program shall resolve any 
conflicts among requests of Indian tribes for housing units under 
subsection (a) before submitting requests to the Secretary of the Air 
Force under subsection (b).
    (d) In this section, the term ``Indian tribe'' means any recognized 
Indian tribe included on the current list published by the Secretary of 
the Interior under section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe 
Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-454; 108 Stat. 4792; 25 U.S.C. 479a-1).
    Sec. 8030.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations which 
are available to the Department of Defense for operation and 
maintenance may be used to purchase items having an investment item 
unit cost of not more than $250,000.
    Sec. 8031.  The Secretary of Defense shall issue regulations to 
prohibit the sale of any tobacco or tobacco-related products in 
military resale outlets in the United States, its territories and 
possessions at a price below the most competitive price in the local 
community:  Provided, That such regulations shall direct that the 
prices of tobacco or tobacco-related products in overseas military 
retail outlets shall be within the range of prices established for 
military retail system stores located in the United States.
    Sec. 8032. (a) During the current fiscal year, none of the 
appropriations or funds available to the Department of Defense Working 
Capital Funds shall be used for the purchase of an investment item for 
the purpose of acquiring a new inventory item for sale or anticipated 
sale during the current fiscal year or a subsequent fiscal year to 
customers of the Department of Defense Working Capital Funds if such an 
item would not have been chargeable to the Department of Defense 
Business Operations Fund during fiscal year 1994 and if the purchase of 
such an investment item would be chargeable during the current fiscal 
year to appropriations made to the Department of Defense for 
procurement.
    (b) The fiscal year 2017 budget request for the Department of 
Defense as well as all justification material and other documentation 
supporting the fiscal year 2017 Department of Defense budget shall be 
prepared and submitted to the Congress on the basis that any equipment 
which was classified as an end item and funded in a procurement 
appropriation contained in this Act shall be budgeted for in a proposed 
fiscal year 2017 procurement appropriation and not in the supply 
management business area or any other area or category of the 
Department of Defense Working Capital Funds.
    Sec. 8033.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs 
of the Central Intelligence Agency shall remain available for 
obligation beyond the current fiscal year, except for funds 
appropriated for the Reserve for Contingencies, which shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That funds appropriated, 
transferred, or otherwise credited to the Central Intelligence Agency 
Central Services Working Capital Fund during this or any prior or 
subsequent fiscal year shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That any funds appropriated or transferred to the Central 
Intelligence Agency for advanced research and development acquisition, 
for agent operations, and for covert action programs authorized by the 
President under section 503 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3093) shall remain available until September 30, 2017.
    Sec. 8034.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this Act for the Defense Intelligence Agency may be used 
for the design, development, and deployment of General Defense 
Intelligence Program intelligence communications and intelligence 
information systems for the Services, the Unified and Specified 
Commands, and the component commands.
    Sec. 8035.  Of the funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', not less 
than $12,000,000 may be made available only for the mitigation of 
environmental impacts, including training and technical assistance to 
tribes, related administrative support, the gathering of information, 
documenting of environmental damage, and developing a system for 
prioritization of mitigation and cost to complete estimates for 
mitigation, on Indian lands resulting from Department of Defense 
activities.
    Sec. 8036. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended by an entity of the Department of Defense unless the entity, 
in expending the funds, complies with the Buy American Act. For 
purposes of this subsection, the term ``Buy American Act'' means 
chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    (b) If the Secretary of Defense determines that a person has been 
convicted of intentionally affixing a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription to any product sold in or shipped to the United 
States that is not made in America, the Secretary shall determine, in 
accordance with section 2410f of title 10, United States Code, whether 
the person should be debarred from contracting with the Department of 
Defense.
    (c) In the case of any equipment or products purchased with 
appropriations provided under this Act, it is the sense of the Congress 
that any entity of the Department of Defense, in expending the 
appropriation, purchase only American-made equipment and products, 
provided that American-made equipment and products are cost-
competitive, quality competitive, and available in a timely fashion.
    Sec. 8037.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act and 
hereafter shall be available for a contract for studies, analysis, or 
consulting services entered into without competition on the basis of an 
unsolicited proposal unless the head of the activity responsible for 
the procurement determines--
            (1) as a result of thorough technical evaluation, only one 
        source is found fully qualified to perform the proposed work;
            (2) the purpose of the contract is to explore an 
        unsolicited proposal which offers significant scientific or 
        technological promise, represents the product of original 
        thinking, and was submitted in confidence by one source; or
            (3) the purpose of the contract is to take advantage of 
        unique and significant industrial accomplishment by a specific 
        concern, or to insure that a new product or idea of a specific 
        concern is given financial support:  Provided, That this 
        limitation shall not apply to contracts in an amount of less 
        than $25,000, contracts related to improvements of equipment 
        that is in development or production, or contracts as to which 
        a civilian official of the Department of Defense, who has been 
        confirmed by the Senate, determines that the award of such 
        contract is in the interest of the national defense.
    Sec. 8038. (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), none 
of the funds made available by this Act may be used--
            (1) to establish a field operating agency; or
            (2) to pay the basic pay of a member of the Armed Forces or 
        civilian employee of the department who is transferred or 
        reassigned from a headquarters activity if the member or 
        employee's place of duty remains at the location of that 
        headquarters.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense or Secretary of a military department 
may waive the limitations in subsection (a), on a case-by-case basis, 
if the Secretary determines, and certifies to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate that the 
granting of the waiver will reduce the personnel requirements or the 
financial requirements of the department.
    (c) This section does not apply to--
            (1) field operating agencies funded within the National 
        Intelligence Program;
            (2) an Army field operating agency established to 
        eliminate, mitigate, or counter the effects of improvised 
        explosive devices, and, as determined by the Secretary of the 
        Army, other similar threats;
            (3) an Army field operating agency established to improve 
        the effectiveness and efficiencies of biometric activities and 
        to integrate common biometric technologies throughout the 
        Department of Defense; or
            (4) an Air Force field operating agency established to 
        administer the Air Force Mortuary Affairs Program and Mortuary 
        Operations for the Department of Defense and authorized Federal 
        entities.
    Sec. 8039. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
available to convert to contractor performance an activity or function 
of the Department of Defense that, on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, is performed by Department of Defense civilian 
employees unless--
            (1) the conversion is based on the result of a public-
        private competition that includes a most efficient and cost 
        effective organization plan developed by such activity or 
        function;
            (2) the Competitive Sourcing Official determines that, over 
        all performance periods stated in the solicitation of offers 
        for performance of the activity or function, the cost of 
        performance of the activity or function by a contractor would 
        be less costly to the Department of Defense by an amount that 
        equals or exceeds the lesser of--
                    (A) 10 percent of the most efficient organization's 
                personnel-related costs for performance of that 
                activity or function by Federal employees; or
                    (B) $10,000,000; and
            (3) the contractor does not receive an advantage for a 
        proposal that would reduce costs for the Department of Defense 
        by--
                    (A) not making an employer-sponsored health 
                insurance plan available to the workers who are to be 
                employed in the performance of that activity or 
                function under the contract; or
                    (B) offering to such workers an employer-sponsored 
                health benefits plan that requires the employer to 
                contribute less towards the premium or subscription 
                share than the amount that is paid by the Department of 
                Defense for health benefits for civilian employees 
                under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b)(1) The Department of Defense, without regard to subsection (a) 
of this section or subsection (a), (b), or (c) of section 2461 of title 
10, United States Code, and notwithstanding any administrative 
regulation, requirement, or policy to the contrary shall have full 
authority to enter into a contract for the performance of any 
commercial or industrial type function of the Department of Defense 
that--
            (A) is included on the procurement list established 
        pursuant to section 2 of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (section 
        8503 of title 41, United States Code);
            (B) is planned to be converted to performance by a 
        qualified nonprofit agency for the blind or by a qualified 
        nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped individuals in 
        accordance with that Act; or
            (C) is planned to be converted to performance by a 
        qualified firm under at least 51 percent ownership by an Indian 
        tribe, as defined in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)), 
        or a Native Hawaiian Organization, as defined in section 
        8(a)(15) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(15)).
    (2) This section shall not apply to depot contracts or contracts 
for depot maintenance as provided in sections 2469 and 2474 of title 
10, United States Code.
    (c) The conversion of any activity or function of the Department of 
Defense under the authority provided by this section shall be credited 
toward any competitive or outsourcing goal, target, or measurement that 
may be established by statute, regulation, or policy and is deemed to 
be awarded under the authority of, and in compliance with, subsection 
(h) of section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
competition or outsourcing of commercial activities.

                             (rescissions)

    Sec. 8040.  Of the funds appropriated in Department of Defense 
Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the 
following accounts and programs in the specified amounts:  Provided, 
That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism or as an emergency requirement pursuant to the Concurrent 
Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended:
            ``Cooperative Threat Reduction Account'', 2014/2016, 
        $23,727,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 2014/2016, $78,000,000;
            ``Cooperative Threat Reduction Account'', 2015/2017, 
        $13,345,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 2015/2017, $68,000,000;
            ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2015/2017, 
        $139,976,000;
            ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 2015/2017, 
        $212,000,000;
            ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 2015/2017, $9,000,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army'', 2015/
        2016, $9,299,000;
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force'', 
        2015/2016, $665,000,000; and
            ``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-
        Wide'', 2015/2016, $60,691,000.
    Sec. 8041.  None of the funds available in this Act may be used to 
reduce the authorized positions for military technicians (dual status) 
of the Army National Guard, Air National Guard, Army Reserve and Air 
Force Reserve for the purpose of applying any administratively imposed 
civilian personnel ceiling, freeze, or reduction on military 
technicians (dual status), unless such reductions are a direct result 
of a reduction in military force structure.
    Sec. 8042.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be obligated or expended for assistance to 
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea unless specifically 
appropriated for that purpose.
    Sec. 8043.  Funds appropriated in this Act for operation and 
maintenance of the Military Departments, Combatant Commands and Defense 
Agencies shall be available for reimbursement of pay, allowances and 
other expenses which would otherwise be incurred against appropriations 
for the National Guard and Reserve when members of the National Guard 
and Reserve provide intelligence or counterintelligence support to 
Combatant Commands, Defense Agencies and Joint Intelligence Activities, 
including the activities and programs included within the National 
Intelligence Program and the Military Intelligence Program:  Provided, 
That nothing in this section authorizes deviation from established 
Reserve and National Guard personnel and training procedures.
    Sec. 8044. (a) None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter-drug 
activities may be transferred to any other department or agency of the 
United States except as specifically provided in an appropriations law.
    (b) None of the funds available to the Central Intelligence Agency 
for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter-drug activities 
may be transferred to any other department or agency of the United 
States except as specifically provided in an appropriations law.
    Sec. 8045.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used for Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle launch service competitions 
unless such competitions are open to all certified providers of Evolved 
Expendable Launch Vehicle-class systems:  Provided, That competitions 
for launches with multiple service providers shall consider bids from 
two or more providers:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, such providers may compete any certified launch 
vehicle in their inventory.
    Sec. 8046.  In addition to the amounts appropriated or otherwise 
made available elsewhere in this Act, $20,000,000 is hereby 
appropriated to the Department of Defense:  Provided, That upon the 
determination of the Secretary of Defense that it shall serve the 
national interest, the Secretary shall make a grant in the amount 
specified as follows: $20,000,000 to the United Service Organizations.
    Sec. 8047.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to purchase 
any supercomputer which is not manufactured in the United States, 
unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional defense 
committees that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire 
capability for national security purposes that is not available from 
United States manufacturers.
    Sec. 8048.  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, the 
Small Business Innovation Research program and the Small Business 
Technology Transfer program set-asides shall be taken proportionally 
from all programs, projects, or activities to the extent they 
contribute to the extramural budget.
    Sec. 8049.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense under this Act shall be obligated or expended to pay a 
contractor under a contract with the Department of Defense for costs of 
any amount paid by the contractor to an employee when--
            (1) such costs are for a bonus or otherwise in excess of 
        the normal salary paid by the contractor to the employee; and
            (2) such bonus is part of restructuring costs associated 
        with a business combination.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8050.  During the current fiscal year, no more than 
$30,000,000 of appropriations made in this Act under the heading 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be transferred to 
appropriations available for the pay of military personnel, to be 
merged with, and to be available for the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred, to be used in support of such 
personnel in connection with support and services for eligible 
organizations and activities outside the Department of Defense pursuant 
to section 2012 of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8051.  During the current fiscal year, in the case of an 
appropriation account of the Department of Defense for which the period 
of availability for obligation has expired or which has closed under 
the provisions of section 1552 of title 31, United States Code, and 
which has a negative unliquidated or unexpended balance, an obligation 
or an adjustment of an obligation may be charged to any current 
appropriation account for the same purpose as the expired or closed 
account if--
            (1) the obligation would have been properly chargeable 
        (except as to amount) to the expired or closed account before 
        the end of the period of availability or closing of that 
        account;
            (2) the obligation is not otherwise properly chargeable to 
        any current appropriation account of the Department of Defense; 
        and
            (3) in the case of an expired account, the obligation is 
        not chargeable to a current appropriation of the Department of 
        Defense under the provisions of section 1405(b)(8) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991, Public 
        Law 101-510, as amended (31 U.S.C. 1551 note):  Provided, That 
        in the case of an expired account, if subsequent review or 
        investigation discloses that there was not in fact a negative 
        unliquidated or unexpended balance in the account, any charge 
        to a current account under the authority of this section shall 
        be reversed and recorded against the expired account:  Provided 
        further, That the total amount charged to a current 
        appropriation under this section may not exceed an amount equal 
        to 1 percent of the total appropriation for that account.
    Sec. 8052. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Chief of the National Guard Bureau may permit the use of equipment of 
the National Guard Distance Learning Project by any person or entity on 
a space-available, reimbursable basis. The Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau shall establish the amount of reimbursement for such use on a 
case-by-case basis.
    (b) Amounts collected under subsection (a) shall be credited to 
funds available for the National Guard Distance Learning Project and be 
available to defray the costs associated with the use of equipment of 
the project under that subsection. Such funds shall be available for 
such purposes without fiscal year limitation.
    Sec. 8053.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
Defense may be obligated to modify command and control relationships to 
give Fleet Forces Command operational and administrative control of 
United States Navy forces assigned to the Pacific fleet:  Provided, 
That the command and control relationships which existed on October 1, 
2004, shall remain in force unless changes are specifically authorized 
in a subsequent Act:  Provided further, That this section does not 
apply to administrative control of Navy Air and Missile Defense 
Command.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8054.  Of the funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide'', $25,000,000 shall be for 
continued implementation and expansion of the Sexual Assault Special 
Victims' Counsel Program:  Provided, That the funds are made available 
for transfer to the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, 
and the Department of the Air Force:  Provided further, That funds 
transferred shall be merged with and available for the same purposes 
and for the same time period as the appropriations to which the funds 
are transferred:  Provided further, That this transfer authority is in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act.
    Sec. 8055.  None of the funds appropriated in title IV of this Act 
may be used to procure end-items for delivery to military forces for 
operational training, operational use or inventory requirements:  
Provided, That this restriction does not apply to end-items used in 
development, prototyping, and test activities preceding and leading to 
acceptance for operational use:  Provided further, That this 
restriction does not apply to programs funded within the National 
Intelligence Program:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense 
may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in 
writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate that it is in the national security 
interest to do so.
    Sec. 8056. (a) The Secretary of Defense may, on a case-by-case 
basis, waive with respect to a foreign country each limitation on the 
procurement of defense items from foreign sources provided in law if 
the Secretary determines that the application of the limitation with 
respect to that country would invalidate cooperative programs entered 
into between the Department of Defense and the foreign country, or 
would invalidate reciprocal trade agreements for the procurement of 
defense items entered into under section 2531 of title 10, United 
States Code, and the country does not discriminate against the same or 
similar defense items produced in the United States for that country.
    (b) Subsection (a) applies with respect to--
            (1) contracts and subcontracts entered into on or after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) options for the procurement of items that are exercised 
        after such date under contracts that are entered into before 
        such date if the option prices are adjusted for any reason 
        other than the application of a waiver granted under subsection 
        (a).
    (c) Subsection (a) does not apply to a limitation regarding 
construction of public vessels, ball and roller bearings, food, and 
clothing or textile materials as defined by section 11 (chapters 50-65) 
of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule and products classified under 
headings 4010, 4202, 4203, 6401 through 6406, 6505, 7019, 7218 through 
7229, 7304.41 through 7304.49, 7306.40, 7502 through 7508, 8105, 8108, 
8109, 8211, 8215, and 9404.
    Sec. 8057.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act 
may be used to consolidate or relocate any element of a United States 
Air Force Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron 
Engineer (RED HORSE) outside of the United States until the Secretary 
of the Air Force--
            (1) completes an analysis and comparison of the cost and 
        infrastructure investment required to consolidate or relocate a 
        RED HORSE squadron outside of the United States versus within 
        the United States;
            (2) provides to the congressional defense committees a 
        report detailing the findings of the cost analysis; and
            (3) certifies in writing to the congressional defense 
        committees that the preferred site for the consolidation or 
        relocation yields the greatest savings for the Air Force:
  Provided, That the term ``United States'' in this section does not 
include any territory or possession of the United States.
    Sec. 8058.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or other Department of Defense Appropriations Acts 
may be obligated or expended for the purpose of performing repairs or 
maintenance to military family housing units of the Department of 
Defense, including areas in such military family housing units that may 
be used for the purpose of conducting official Department of Defense 
business.
    Sec. 8059.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated in this Act under the heading ``Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' for any new start advanced concept 
technology demonstration project or joint capability demonstration 
project may only be obligated 45 days after a report, including a 
description of the project, the planned acquisition and transition 
strategy and its estimated annual and total cost, has been provided in 
writing to the congressional defense committees:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis 
by certifying to the congressional defense committees that it is in the 
national interest to do so.
    Sec. 8060.  The Secretary of Defense shall continue to provide a 
classified quarterly report to the House and Senate Appropriations 
Committees, Subcommittees on Defense on certain matters as directed in 
the classified annex accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 8061.  Notwithstanding section 12310(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, a Reserve who is a member of the National Guard serving on 
full-time National Guard duty under section 502(f) of title 32, United 
States Code, may perform duties in support of the ground-based elements 
of the National Ballistic Missile Defense System.
    Sec. 8062.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
transfer to any nongovernmental entity ammunition held by the 
Department of Defense that has a center-fire cartridge and a United 
States military nomenclature designation of ``armor penetrator'', 
``armor piercing (AP)'', ``armor piercing incendiary (API)'', or 
``armor-piercing incendiary tracer (API-T)'', except to an entity 
performing demilitarization services for the Department of Defense 
under a contract that requires the entity to demonstrate to the 
satisfaction of the Department of Defense that armor piercing 
projectiles are either: (1) rendered incapable of reuse by the 
demilitarization process; or (2) used to manufacture ammunition 
pursuant to a contract with the Department of Defense or the 
manufacture of ammunition for export pursuant to a License for 
Permanent Export of Unclassified Military Articles issued by the 
Department of State.
    Sec. 8063.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Chief 
of the National Guard Bureau, or his designee, may waive payment of all 
or part of the consideration that otherwise would be required under 
section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, in the case of a lease of 
personal property for a period not in excess of 1 year to any 
organization specified in section 508(d) of title 32, United States 
Code, or any other youth, social, or fraternal nonprofit organization 
as may be approved by the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, or his 
designee, on a case-by-case basis.
    Sec. 8064.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
used for the support of any nonappropriated funds activity of the 
Department of Defense that procures malt beverages and wine with 
nonappropriated funds for resale (including such alcoholic beverages 
sold by the drink) on a military installation located in the United 
States unless such malt beverages and wine are procured within that 
State, or in the case of the District of Columbia, within the District 
of Columbia, in which the military installation is located:  Provided, 
That, in a case in which the military installation is located in more 
than one State, purchases may be made in any State in which the 
installation is located:  Provided further, That such local procurement 
requirements for malt beverages and wine shall apply to all alcoholic 
beverages only for military installations in States which are not 
contiguous with another State:  Provided further, That alcoholic 
beverages other than wine and malt beverages, in contiguous States and 
the District of Columbia shall be procured from the most competitive 
source, price and other factors considered.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8065.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $76,611,750 shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of Defense is authorized to transfer 
such funds to other activities of the Federal Government:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense is authorized to enter into and 
carry out contracts for the acquisition of real property, construction, 
personal services, and operations related to projects carrying out the 
purposes of this section:  Provided further, That contracts entered 
into under the authority of this section may provide for such 
indemnification as the Secretary determines to be necessary:  Provided 
further, That projects authorized by this section shall comply with 
applicable Federal, State, and local law to the maximum extent 
consistent with the national security, as determined by the Secretary 
of Defense.
    Sec. 8066. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act may be used to take any action to modify--
            (1) the appropriations account structure for the National 
        Intelligence Program budget, including through the creation of 
        a new appropriation or new appropriation account;
            (2) how the National Intelligence Program budget request is 
        presented in the unclassified P-1, R-1, and O-1 documents 
        supporting the Department of Defense budget request;
            (3) the process by which the National Intelligence Program 
        appropriations are apportioned to the executing agencies; or
            (4) the process by which the National Intelligence Program 
        appropriations are allotted, obligated and disbursed.
    (b) Nothing in section (a) shall be construed to prohibit the 
merger of programs or changes to the National Intelligence Program 
budget at or below the Expenditure Center level, provided such change 
is otherwise in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1)-(3).
    (c) The Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of 
Defense may jointly, only for the purposes of achieving auditable 
financial statements and improving fiscal reporting, study and develop 
detailed proposals for alternative financial management processes. Such 
study shall include a comprehensive counterintelligence risk assessment 
to ensure that none of the alternative processes will adversely affect 
counterintelligence.
    (d) Upon development of the detailed proposals defined under 
subsection (c), the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary 
of Defense shall--
            (1) provide the proposed alternatives to all affected 
        agencies;
            (2) receive certification from all affected agencies 
        attesting that the proposed alternatives will help achieve 
        auditability, improve fiscal reporting, and will not adversely 
        affect counterintelligence; and
            (3) not later than 30 days after receiving all necessary 
        certifications under paragraph (2), present the proposed 
        alternatives and certifications to the congressional defense 
        and intelligence committees.
    Sec. 8067.  Of the amount appropriated by title VI under the 
heading ``Defense Health Program'', $10,000,000 shall be available for 
peer-reviewed medical research on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8068.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under the 
headings ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'' and ``Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $473,995,000 shall be for the 
Israeli Cooperative Programs:  Provided, That of this amount, 
$41,400,000 shall be for the Secretary of Defense to provide to the 
Government of Israel for the procurement of the Iron Dome defense 
system to counter short-range rocket threats, subject to the U.S.-
Israel Iron Dome Procurement Agreement, as amended; $286,526,000 shall 
be for the Short Range Ballistic Missile Defense (SRBMD) program, 
including cruise missile defense research and development under the 
SRBMD program, of which $150,000,000 shall be for production activities 
of SRBMD missiles in the United States and in Israel to meet Israel's 
defense requirements consistent with each nation's laws, regulations, 
and procedures, of which not more than $90,000,000, subject to 
previously established transfer procedures, may be obligated or 
expended until establishment of a U.S.-Israeli production agreement for 
SRBMD; $89,550,000 shall be for an upper-tier component to the Israeli 
Missile Defense Architecture, of which not more than $15,000,000, 
subject to previously established transfer procedures, may be obligated 
or expended until establishment of a U.S.-Israeli production agreement; 
and $56,519,000 shall be for the Arrow System Improvement Program 
including development of a long range, ground and airborne, detection 
suite:  Provided further, That funds made available under this 
provision for production of missiles and missile components may be 
transferred to appropriations available for the procurement of weapons 
and equipment, to be merged with and to be available for the same time 
period and the same purposes as the appropriation to which transferred: 
 Provided further, That the transfer authority provided under this 
provision is in addition to any other transfer authority contained in 
this Act.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8069.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under the 
heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', $389,305,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2016, to fund prior year shipbuilding 
cost increases:  Provided, That upon enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall transfer funds to the following 
appropriations in the amounts specified:  Provided further, That the 
amounts transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same 
purposes as the appropriations to which transferred to:
            (1) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2008/2016: Carrier Replacement Program $123,760,000;
            (2) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2009/2016: LPD-17 Amphibious Transport Dock Program 
        $22,860,000;
            (3) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2012/2016: CVN Refueling Overhauls Program $20,029,000;
            (4) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2012/2016: DDG-51 Destroyer $75,014,000;
            (5) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2012/2016: Littoral Combat Ship $82,674,000;
            (6) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2012/2016: LPD-17 Amphibious Transport Dock Program 
        $38,733,000;
            (7) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2012/2016: Joint High Speed Vessel $22,597,000; and
            (8) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
        Navy'', 2013/2016: Joint High Speed Vessel $3,638,000.
    Sec. 8070.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by 
the transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence activities are 
deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of 
section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094) 
during fiscal year 2016 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.
    Sec. 8071.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of 
funds that creates or initiates a new program, project, or activity 
unless such program, project, or activity must be undertaken 
immediately in the interest of national security and only after written 
prior notification to the congressional defense committees.
    Sec. 8072.  The budget of the President for fiscal year 2017 
submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United 
States Code, shall include separate budget justification documents for 
costs of United States Armed Forces' participation in contingency 
operations for the Military Personnel accounts, the Operation and 
Maintenance accounts, the Procurement accounts, and the Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation accounts:  Provided, That these 
documents shall include a description of the funding requested for each 
contingency operation, for each military service, to include all Active 
and Reserve components, and for each appropriations account:  Provided 
further, That these documents shall include estimated costs for each 
element of expense or object class, a reconciliation of increases and 
decreases for each contingency operation, and programmatic data 
including, but not limited to, troop strength for each Active and 
Reserve component, and estimates of the major weapons systems deployed 
in support of each contingency:  Provided further, That these documents 
shall include budget exhibits OP-5 and OP-32 (as defined in the 
Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation) for all 
contingency operations for the budget year and the two preceding fiscal 
years.
    Sec. 8073.  None of the funds in this Act may be used for research, 
development, test, evaluation, procurement or deployment of nuclear 
armed interceptors of a missile defense system.
    Sec. 8074.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, to 
reflect savings due to favorable foreign exchange rates, the total 
amount appropriated in this Act is hereby reduced by $1,201,800,000.
    Sec. 8075.  None of the funds appropriated or made available in 
this Act shall be used to reduce or disestablish the operation of the 
53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of the Air Force Reserve, if such 
action would reduce the WC-130 Weather Reconnaissance mission below the 
levels funded in this Act:  Provided, That the Air Force shall allow 
the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron to perform other missions in 
support of national defense requirements during the non-hurricane 
season.
    Sec. 8076.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for integration of foreign intelligence information unless 
the information has been lawfully collected and processed during the 
conduct of authorized foreign intelligence activities:  Provided, That 
information pertaining to United States persons shall only be handled 
in accordance with protections provided in the Fourth Amendment of the 
United States Constitution as implemented through Executive Order No. 
12333.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8077.  The Secretary of Defense may transfer funds from any 
available Department of the Navy appropriation to any available Navy 
ship construction appropriation for the purpose of liquidating 
necessary changes resulting from inflation, market fluctuations, or 
rate adjustments for any ship construction program appropriated in law: 
 Provided, That the Secretary may transfer not to exceed $50,000,000 
under the authority provided by this section:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary may not transfer any funds until 30 days after the 
proposed transfer has been reported to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate, unless a response from 
the Committees is received sooner:  Provided further, That any funds 
transferred pursuant to this section shall retain the same period of 
availability as when originally appropriated:  Provided further, That 
the transfer authority provided by this section is in addition to any 
other transfer authority contained elsewhere in this Act.
    Sec. 8078. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to transfer research and development, acquisition, or other 
program authority relating to current tactical unmanned aerial vehicles 
(TUAVs) from the Army.
    (b) The Army shall retain responsibility for and operational 
control of the MQ-1C Gray Eagle Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) in order 
to support the Secretary of Defense in matters relating to the 
employment of unmanned aerial vehicles.
    Sec. 8079.  Up to $15,000,000 of the funds appropriated under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'' may be made available for 
the Asia Pacific Regional Initiative Program for the purpose of 
enabling the Pacific Command to execute Theater Security Cooperation 
activities such as humanitarian assistance, and payment of incremental 
and personnel costs of training and exercising with foreign security 
forces:  Provided, That funds made available for this purpose may be 
used, notwithstanding any other funding authorities for humanitarian 
assistance, security assistance or combined exercise expenses:  
Provided further, That funds may not be obligated to provide assistance 
to any foreign country that is otherwise prohibited from receiving such 
type of assistance under any other provision of law.
    Sec. 8080.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for programs 
of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, except for 
funds appropriated for research and technology, which shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017.
    Sec. 8081.  For purposes of section 1553(b) of title 31, United 
States Code, any subdivision of appropriations made in this Act under 
the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'' shall be considered 
to be for the same purpose as any subdivision under the heading 
``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'' appropriations in any prior 
fiscal year, and the 1 percent limitation shall apply to the total 
amount of the appropriation.
    Sec. 8082. (a) Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit a 
report to the congressional intelligence committees to establish the 
baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer authorities for 
fiscal year 2016:  Provided, That the report shall include--
            (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column 
        to display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
        appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
            (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation by 
        Expenditure Center and project; and
            (3) an identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.
    (b) None of the funds provided for the National Intelligence 
Program in this Act shall be available for reprogramming or transfer 
until the report identified in subsection (a) is submitted to the 
congressional intelligence committees, unless the Director of National 
Intelligence certifies in writing to the congressional intelligence 
committees that such reprogramming or transfer is necessary as an 
emergency requirement.
    Sec. 8083.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to retire, divest, realign or transfer RQ-4B Global Hawk aircraft, 
or to disestablish or convert units associated with such aircraft.
    Sec. 8084.  During the current fiscal year and hereafter, none of 
the funds made available by this Act for excess defense articles, 
assistance under title 10, U.S.C. 2282, or peacekeeping operations for 
the countries designated annually in the Department of State's 
Trafficking in Persons Report to be in violation of the standards of 
the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 may be used to support any 
military training or operation that includes child soldiers, as defined 
by the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-457; 22 
U.S.C. 2370c-1), unless such assistance is otherwise permitted under 
section 404 of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8085.  Of the funds appropriated in the Intelligence Community 
Management Account for the Program Manager for the Information Sharing 
Environment, $20,000,000 is available for transfer by the Director of 
National Intelligence to other departments and agencies for purposes of 
Government-wide information sharing activities:  Provided, That funds 
transferred under this provision are to be merged with and available 
for the same purposes and time period as the appropriation to which 
transferred:  Provided further, That the Office of Management and 
Budget must approve any transfers made under this provision.
    Sec. 8086. (a) None of the funds provided for the National 
Intelligence Program in this or any prior appropriations Act shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming or 
transfer of funds in accordance with section 102A(d) of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024(d)) that--
            (1) creates a new start effort;
            (2) terminates a program with appropriated funding of 
        $10,000,000 or more;
            (3) transfers funding into or out of the National 
        Intelligence Program; or
            (4) transfers funding between appropriations,
unless the congressional intelligence committees are notified 30 days 
in advance of such reprogramming of funds; this notification period may 
be reduced for urgent national security requirements.
    (b) None of the funds provided for the National Intelligence 
Program in this or any prior appropriations Act shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming or transfer of funds 
in accordance with section 102A(d) or the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3024(d)) that results in a cumulative increase or decrease 
of the levels specified in the classified annex accompanying the Act 
unless the congressional intelligence committees are notified 30 days 
in advance of such reprogramming of funds; this notification period may 
be reduced for urgent national security requirements.
    Sec. 8087.  The Director of National Intelligence shall submit to 
Congress each year, at or about the time that the President's budget is 
submitted to Congress that year under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code, a future-years intelligence program (including 
associated annexes) reflecting the estimated expenditures and proposed 
appropriations included in that budget. Any such future-years 
intelligence program shall cover the fiscal year with respect to which 
the budget is submitted and at least the four succeeding fiscal years.
    Sec. 8088.  For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
intelligence committees'' means the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the House of Representatives, the Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the 
Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
Senate.
    Sec. 8089.  The Department of Defense shall continue to report 
incremental contingency operations costs for Operation Inherent 
Resolve, Operation Freedom's Sentinel, and any named successor 
operations, on a monthly basis and any other operation designated and 
identified by the Secretary of Defense for the purposes of section 127a 
of title 10, United States Code, on a semi-annual basis in the Cost of 
War Execution Report as prescribed in the Department of Defense 
Financial Management Regulation Department of Defense Instruction 
7000.14, Volume 12, Chapter 23 ``Contingency Operations'', Annex 1, 
dated September 2005.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8090.  During the current fiscal year, not to exceed 
$11,000,000 from each of the appropriations made in title II of this 
Act for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Navy'', and ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'' may 
be transferred by the military department concerned to its central fund 
established for Fisher Houses and Suites pursuant to section 2493(d) of 
title 10, United States Code.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8091.  Funds appropriated by this Act for operation and 
maintenance may be available for the purpose of making remittances and 
transfer to the Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund in 
accordance with section 1705 of title 10, United States Code.
    Sec. 8092. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public Web 
site of that agency any report required to be submitted by the Congress 
in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head of the 
agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains proprietary information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.
    Sec. 8093. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be expended for any Federal contract for an 
amount in excess of $1,000,000, unless the contractor agrees not to--
            (1) enter into any agreement with any of its employees or 
        independent contractors that requires, as a condition of 
        employment, that the employee or independent contractor agree 
        to resolve through arbitration any claim under title VII of the 
        Civil Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out 
        of sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery, 
        intentional infliction of emotional distress, false 
        imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention; 
        or
            (2) take any action to enforce any provision of an existing 
        agreement with an employee or independent contractor that 
        mandates that the employee or independent contractor resolve 
        through arbitration any claim under title VII of the Civil 
        Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out of 
        sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery, 
        intentional infliction of emotional distress, false 
        imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act may be expended for any Federal contract unless the contractor 
certifies that it requires each covered subcontractor to agree not to 
enter into, and not to take any action to enforce any provision of, any 
agreement as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), 
with respect to any employee or independent contractor performing work 
related to such subcontract. For purposes of this subsection, a 
``covered subcontractor'' is an entity that has a subcontract in excess 
of $1,000,000 on a contract subject to subsection (a).
    (c) The prohibitions in this section do not apply with respect to a 
contractor's or subcontractor's agreements with employees or 
independent contractors that may not be enforced in a court of the 
United States.
    (d) The Secretary of Defense may waive the application of 
subsection (a) or (b) to a particular contractor or subcontractor for 
the purposes of a particular contract or subcontract if the Secretary 
or the Deputy Secretary personally determines that the waiver is 
necessary to avoid harm to national security interests of the United 
States, and that the term of the contract or subcontract is not longer 
than necessary to avoid such harm. The determination shall set forth 
with specificity the grounds for the waiver and for the contract or 
subcontract term selected, and shall state any alternatives considered 
in lieu of a waiver and the reasons each such alternative would not 
avoid harm to national security interests of the United States. The 
Secretary of Defense shall transmit to Congress, and simultaneously 
make public, any determination under this subsection not less than 15 
business days before the contract or subcontract addressed in the 
determination may be awarded.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8094.  From within the funds appropriated for operation and 
maintenance for the Defense Health Program in this Act, up to 
$121,000,000, shall be available for transfer to the Joint Department 
of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund in accordance with the provisions of section 1704 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, Public Law 
111-84:  Provided, That, for purposes of section 1704(b), the facility 
operations funded are operations of the integrated Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
as described by section 706 of Public Law 110-417:  Provided further, 
That additional funds may be transferred from funds appropriated for 
operation and maintenance for the Defense Health Program to the Joint 
Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Defense to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 8095.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used by the Secretary of Defense to take beneficial occupancy of more 
than 2,500 parking spaces (other than handicap-reserved spaces) to be 
provided by the BRAC 133 project:  Provided, That this limitation may 
be waived in part if: (1) the Secretary of Defense certifies to 
Congress that levels of service at existing intersections in the 
vicinity of the project have not experienced failing levels of service 
as defined by the Transportation Research Board Highway Capacity Manual 
over a consecutive 90-day period; (2) the Department of Defense and the 
Virginia Department of Transportation agree on the number of additional 
parking spaces that may be made available to employees of the facility 
subject to continued 90-day traffic monitoring; and (3) the Secretary 
of Defense notifies the congressional defense committees in writing at 
least 14 days prior to exercising this waiver of the number of 
additional parking spaces to be made available.
    Sec. 8096.  Appropriations available to the Department of Defense 
may be used for the purchase of heavy and light armored vehicles for 
the physical security of personnel or for force protection purposes up 
to a limit of $400,000 per vehicle, notwithstanding price or other 
limitations applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying vehicles.
    Sec. 8097.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act may be used by the Department of 
Defense or a component thereof in contravention of section 1246(c)(2) 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public 
Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 923), as extended by section 1649 of S. 1376, 
114th Congress, as reported to the Senate.
    Sec. 8098.  The Secretary of Defense shall report quarterly the 
numbers of civilian personnel end strength by appropriation account for 
each and every appropriation account used to finance Federal civilian 
personnel salaries to the congressional defense committees within 15 
days after the end of each fiscal quarter.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8099.  Upon a determination by the Director of National 
Intelligence that such action is necessary and in the national 
interest, the Director may, with the approval of the Office of 
Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed $2,000,000,000 of the 
funds made available in this Act for the National Intelligence Program: 
 Provided, That such authority to transfer may not be used unless for 
higher priority items, based on unforeseen intelligence requirements, 
than those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the 
item for which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress:  
Provided further, That a request for multiple reprogrammings of funds 
using authority provided in this section shall be made prior to June 
30, 2016.
    Sec. 8100.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this or any other Act may be used except in accordance 
with the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, to 
transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release to or within 
the United States, its territories, or possessions Khalid Sheikh 
Mohammed or any other detainee who--
            (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at the United 
        States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
        of Defense.
    Sec. 8101. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this or any other Act may be used to construct, acquire, 
or modify any facility in the United States, its territories, or 
possessions to house any individual described in subsection (c) for the 
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
effective control of the Department of Defense except in accordance 
with the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control 
                of the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States 
                Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    Sec. 8102.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used to transfer any individual detained 
at United States Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the custody or 
control of the individual's country of origin, any other foreign 
country, or any other foreign entity except in accordance with the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 8103.  Of the amounts appropriated for ``Operation and 
Maintenance, Navy'', up to $1,000,000 shall be available for transfer 
to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Development Trust Fund 
established under section 116 of the John C. Stennis Center for Public 
Service Training and Development Act (2 U.S.C. 1105).
    Sec. 8104.  None of the funds provided in this Act for the T-AO(X) 
program shall be used to award a new contract that provides for the 
acquisition of the following components unless those components are 
manufactured in the United States: Auxiliary equipment (including 
pumps) for shipboard services; propulsion equipment (including engines, 
reduction gears, and propellers); shipboard cranes; and spreaders for 
shipboard cranes.
    Sec. 8105. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used by the Secretary of 
Defense, or any other official or officer of the Department of Defense, 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, or make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee 
to Rosoboronexport or any subsidiary of Rosoboronexport.
    (b) The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation in subsection 
(a) if the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State and 
the Director of National Intelligence, determines that it is in the 
vital national security interest of the United States to do so, and 
certifies in writing to the congressional defense committees that, to 
the best of the Secretary's knowledge:
            (1) Rosoboronexport has ceased the transfer of lethal 
        military equipment to, and the maintenance of existing lethal 
        military equipment for, the Government of the Syrian Arab 
        Republic;
            (2) The armed forces of the Russian Federation have 
        withdrawn from Crimea, other than armed forces present on 
        military bases subject to agreements in force between the 
        Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of 
        Ukraine; and
            (3) Agents of the Russian Federation have ceased taking 
        active measures to destabilize the control of the Government of 
        Ukraine over eastern Ukraine.
    (c) The Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall 
conduct a review of any action involving Rosoboronexport with respect 
to a waiver issued by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection 
(b), and not later than 90 days after the date on which such a waiver 
is issued by the Secretary of Defense, the Inspector General shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the 
results of the review conducted with respect to such waiver.
    Sec. 8106.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to transfer more than 36 AH-64 Apache helicopter aircraft from the 
Army National Guard to the active Army until 60 days after the National 
Commission on the Future of the Army releases its recommendations:  
Provided, That this section shall continue in effect through the date 
of enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016.
    Sec. 8107.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, to 
reflect savings due to lower than anticipated fuel prices, the total 
amount appropriated in this Act is hereby reduced by $827,000,000.
    Sec. 8108. (a) Of the funds appropriated in this Act for the 
Department of Defense, amounts may be made available, under such 
regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, to local military 
commanders appointed by the Secretary of Defense, or by an officer or 
employee designated by the Secretary, to provide at their discretion ex 
gratia payments in amounts consistent with subsection (d) of this 
section for damage, personal injury, or death that is incident to 
combat operations of the Armed Forces in a foreign country.
    (b) An ex gratia payment under this section may be provided only 
if--
            (1) the prospective foreign civilian recipient is 
        determined by the local military commander to be friendly to 
        the United States;
            (2) a claim for damages would not be compensable under 
        chapter 163 of title 10, United States Code (commonly known as 
        the ``Foreign Claims Act''); and
            (3) the property damage, personal injury, or death was not 
        caused by action by an enemy.
    (c) Nature of Payments.--Any payments provided under a program 
under subsection (a) shall not be considered an admission or 
acknowledgment of any legal obligation to compensate for any damage, 
personal injury, or death.
    (d) Amount of Payments.--If the Secretary of Defense determines a 
program under subsection (a) to be appropriate in a particular setting, 
the amounts of payments, if any, to be provided to civilians determined 
to have suffered harm incident to combat operations of the Armed Forces 
under the program should be determined pursuant to regulations 
prescribed by the Secretary and based on an assessment, which should 
include such factors as cultural appropriateness and prevailing 
economic conditions.
    (e) Legal Advice.--Local military commanders shall receive legal 
advice before making ex gratia payments under this subsection. The 
legal advisor, under regulations of the Department of Defense, shall 
advise on whether an ex gratia payment is proper under this section and 
applicable Department of Defense regulations.
    (f) Written Record.--A written record of any ex gratia payment 
offered or denied shall be kept by the local commander and on a timely 
basis submitted to the appropriate office in the Department of Defense 
as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
    (g) Report.--The Secretary of Defense shall report to the 
congressional defense committees on an annual basis the efficacy of the 
ex gratia payment program including the number of types of cases 
considered, amounts offered, the response from ex gratia payment 
recipients, and any recommended modifications to the program.
    Sec. 8109.  None of the funds available in this Act to the 
Department of Defense, other than appropriations made for necessary or 
routine refurbishments, upgrades or maintenance activities, shall be 
used to reduce or to prepare to reduce the number of deployed and non-
deployed strategic delivery vehicles and launchers below the levels set 
forth in the report submitted to Congress in accordance with section 
1042 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012.
    Sec. 8110.  Of the funds provided for ``Research, Development, Test 
and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' in this Act, not less than $2,800,000 
shall be used to support the Department's activities related to the 
implementation of the Digital Accountability and Transparency Act (DATA 
Act; Public Law 113-101; 31 U.S.C. 6101 note) and to support the 
implementation of a uniform procurement instrument identifier as 
described in 48 CFR subpart 4.16, to include changes in business 
processes, workforce, or information technology.
    Sec. 8111.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to pay the salary of any officer or employee of the 
Department of Defense who approves or implements the transfer of 
administrative responsibilities or budgetary resources of any program, 
project, or activity financed by this Act to the jurisdiction of 
another Federal agency not financed by this Act without the express 
authorization of Congress:  Provided, That this limitation shall not 
apply to transfers of funds expressly provided for in Defense 
Appropriations Acts, or provisions of Acts providing supplemental 
appropriations for the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 8112.  It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Nation's fiscal challenges are a top priority for 
        Congress, and sequestration--non-strategic, across-the-board 
        budget cuts--remains an unreasonable and inadequate budgeting 
        tool to address the Nation's deficits and debt;
            (2) sequestration relief must be accomplished for fiscal 
        years 2016 and 2017;
            (3) sequestration relief should include equal defense and 
        non-defense relief; and
            (4) sequestration relief should be offset through targeted 
        changes in mandatory and discretionary categories and revenues.

                                TITLE IX

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                           MILITARY PERSONNEL

                        Military Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'', 
$1,828,441,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Military Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Navy'', 
$251,011,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                    Military Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$171,079,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                     Military Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air Force'', 
$726,126,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                        Reserve Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Army'', 
$24,462,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                        Reserve Personnel, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Navy'', 
$12,693,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                    Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps'', 
$3,393,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                      Reserve Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Reserve Personnel, Air Force'', 
$18,710,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                     National Guard Personnel, Army

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Army'', 
$166,015,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                  National Guard Personnel, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``National Guard Personnel, Air 
Force'', $2,828,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                    Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', 
$18,930,336,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Operation and Maintenance, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', 
$21,008,396,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps'', $1,879,613,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', $21,161,888,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide'', $6,850,097,000:  Provided, That of the funds provided under 
this heading, not to exceed $1,160,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017, shall be for payments to reimburse key cooperating 
nations for logistical, military, and other support, including access, 
provided to United States military and stability operations in 
Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant:  
Provided further, That such reimbursement payments may be made in such 
amounts as the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, and in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, may determine, based on documentation 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to adequately account for the 
support provided, and such determination is final and conclusive upon 
the accounting officers of the United States, and 15 days following 
notification to the appropriate congressional committees:  Provided 
further, That these funds may be used for the purpose of providing 
specialized training and procuring supplies and specialized equipment 
and providing such supplies and loaning such equipment on a non-
reimbursable basis to coalition forces supporting United States 
military and stability operations in Afghanistan and to counter the 
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, and 15 days following 
notification to the appropriate congressional committees:  Provided 
further, That these funds may be used to support the Governments of 
Jordan and Lebanon, in such amounts as the Secretary of Defense may 
determine, to enhance the ability of the armed forces of Jordan to 
increase or sustain security along the borders with Syria and Iraq and 
the ability of the armed forces of Lebanon to increase or sustain 
security along the border with Syria, upon 15 days prior written 
notification to the congressional defense committees outlining the 
amounts intended to be provided and the nature of the expenses 
incurred:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall 
provide quarterly reports to the congressional defense committees on 
the use of funds provided in this paragraph:  Provided further, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
Reserve'', $24,559,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy 
Reserve'', $31,643,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps Reserve'', $3,455,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force 
Reserve'', $58,106,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army 
National Guard'', $60,845,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard

    For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard'', $19,900,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Afghanistan Security Forces Fund

    For the ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'', $3,360,357,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such funds 
shall be available to the Secretary of Defense, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, for the purpose of allowing the Commander, 
Combined Security Transition Command--Afghanistan, or the Secretary's 
designee, to provide assistance, with the concurrence of the Secretary 
of State, to the security forces of Afghanistan, including the 
provision of equipment, supplies, services, training, facility and 
infrastructure repair, renovation, construction, and funding:  Provided 
further, That the authority to provide assistance under this heading is 
in addition to any other authority to provide assistance to foreign 
nations:  Provided further, That contributions of funds for the 
purposes provided herein from any person, foreign government, or 
international organization may be credited to this Fund, to remain 
available until expended, and used for such purposes:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional 
defense committees in writing upon the receipt and upon the obligation 
of any contribution, delineating the sources and amounts of the funds 
received and the specific use of such contributions:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to 
obligating from this appropriation account, notify the congressional 
defense committees in writing of the details of any such obligation:  
Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the 
congressional defense committees of any proposed new projects or 
transfer of funds between budget sub-activity groups in excess of 
$20,000,000:  Provided further, That the United States may accept 
equipment procured using funds provided under this heading in this or 
prior Acts that was transferred to the security forces of Afghanistan 
and returned by such forces to the United States:  Provided further, 
That equipment procured using funds provided under this heading in this 
or prior Acts, and not yet transferred to the security forces of 
Afghanistan or transferred to the security forces of Afghanistan and 
returned by such forces to the United States, may be treated as stocks 
of the Department of Defense upon written notification to the 
congressional defense committees:  Provided further, That, of the funds 
provided under this heading, not less than $25,000,000 shall be for 
recruitment and retention of women in the Afghanistan National Security 
Forces:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Iraq Train and Equip Fund

    For the ``Iraq Train and Equip Fund'', $715,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such funds shall be 
available to the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of State, to provide assistance, including training, 
equipment, logistics support, supplies, services, stipends, 
infrastructure repair, renovation, and sustainment, to military and 
other security forces of or associated with the Government of Iraq, 
including Kurdish and tribal security forces or other local security 
forces, with a national security mission, to counter the Islamic State 
of Iraq and the Levant:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure that prior to providing assistance to elements of 
any forces such elements are appropriately vetted, including at a 
minimum, assessing such elements for associations with terrorist groups 
or groups associated with the Government of Iran; and receiving 
commitments from such elements to promote respect for human rights and 
the rule of law:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense may 
accept and retain contributions, including assistance in-kind, from 
foreign governments, including the Government of Iraq, and other 
entities, to carry out assistance authorized under this heading:  
Provided further, That contributions of funds for the purposes provided 
herein from any foreign government or other entities, may be credited 
to this Fund, to remain available until expended, and used for such 
purposes:  Provided further, That not more than 25 percent of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be obligated or expended until not 
fewer than 15 days after (1) the Secretary of Defense submits a report 
to the appropriate congressional committees, describing the plan for 
the provision of such training and assistance and the forces designated 
to receive such assistance, and (2) the President submits a report to 
the appropriate congressional committees on how assistance provided 
under this heading supports a larger regional strategy:  Provided 
further, That of the amount provided under this heading, not more than 
60 percent may be obligated or expended until not fewer than 15 days 
after the date on which the Secretary of Defense certifies to the 
appropriate congressional committees that an amount equal to not less 
than 40 percent of the amount provided under this heading has been 
contributed by other countries and entities for the purposes for which 
funds are provided under this heading, of which at least 50 percent 
shall have been contributed or provided by the Government of Iraq:  
Provided further, That the limitation in the preceding proviso shall 
not apply if the Secretary of Defense determines, in writing, that the 
national security objectives of the United States will be compromised 
by the application of the limitation to such assistance, and notifies 
the appropriate congressional committees not less than 15 days in 
advance of the exemption taking effect, including a justification for 
the Secretary's determination and a description of the assistance to be 
exempted from the application of such limitation:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of Defense may waive a provision of law relating to 
the acquisition of items and support services or sections 40 and 40A of 
the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780 and 2785) if the Secretary 
determines such provisions of law would prohibit, restrict, delay or 
otherwise limit the provision of such assistance and a notice of and 
justification for such waiver is submitted to the appropriate 
congressional committees:  Provided further, That the term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' under this heading means the 
``congressional defense committees'', the Committees on Appropriations 
and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committees on 
Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives:  
Provided further, That amounts made available under this heading are 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       SYRIA TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND

    For the ``Syria Train and Equip Fund'', $531,450,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such funds shall be 
available to the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of State, to provide assistance, including training, 
equipment, supplies, stipends, construction of training and associated 
facilities, and sustainment, to appropriately vetted elements of the 
Syrian opposition and other appropriately vetted Syrian groups and 
individuals for the following purposes: defending the Syrian people 
from attacks by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, and securing 
territory controlled by the Syrian opposition; protecting the United 
States, its friends and allies, and the Syrian people from the threats 
posed by terrorists in Syria; and promoting the conditions for a 
negotiated settlement to end the conflict in Syria:  Provided further, 
That the term ``appropriately vetted'' shall be construed to mean, at a 
minimum, assessments of possible recipients for associations with 
terrorist groups or groups associated with the Governments of Iran or 
Syria; and for commitment to the rule of law and a peaceful and 
democratic Syria:  Provided further, That the Secretary may accept and 
retain contributions, including assistance in-kind, from foreign 
governments and other entities to carry out activities authorized under 
this heading:  Provided further, That contributions of funds for the 
purposes provided herein from any foreign government or other entity to 
carry out activities as authorized by this section shall be credited to 
this Fund, to remain available until expended, and used for such 
purposes:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall comply 
with the reporting requirements in section 149(d) of the Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2015 (Public Law 113-164):  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense may waive a provision of law 
relating to the acquisition of items and support services or sections 
40 and 40A of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780 and 2785) if 
the Secretary determines such provisions of law would prohibit, 
restrict, delay or otherwise limit the provision of such assistance and 
a notice of and justification for such waiver is submitted to the 
appropriate congressional committees:  Provided further, That the term 
``appropriate congressional committees'' under this heading means the 
``congressional defense committees'', the Committees on Appropriations 
and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committees on 
Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives:  
Provided further, That the Secretary may provide assistance to third 
countries for purposes of the provision of assistance authorized under 
this heading:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees 15 days prior to the 
provision of such assistance:  Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Aircraft Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Army'', 
$158,087,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Missile Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'', 
$37,260,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Weapons and Tracked 
Combat Vehicles, Army'', $26,030,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Procurement of Ammunition, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Army'', 
$192,040,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Other Procurement, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'', 
$1,205,596,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                       Aircraft Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 
$217,394,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Weapons Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'', 
$3,344,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $136,930,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                        Other Procurement, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'', 
$12,186,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                       Procurement, Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 
$48,934,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Aircraft Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 
$128,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     Missile Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air Force'', 
$289,142,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition, Air 
Force'', $228,874,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                      Other Procurement, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 
$3,829,964,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                       Procurement, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$173,918,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account

    For procurement of aircraft, missiles, tracked combat vehicles, 
ammunition, other weapons and other procurement for the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces, $1,000,000,000, to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That the Chiefs of 
National Guard and Reserve components shall, not later than 30 days 
after enactment of this Act, individually submit to the congressional 
defense committees the modernization priority assessment for their 
respective National Guard or Reserve component:  Provided further, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Army'', $1,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

            Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Navy'', $35,747,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

         Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Air Force'', $17,100,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $137,087,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS

                     Defense Working Capital Funds

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital Funds'', 
$88,850,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                  OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS

                         Defense Health Program

    For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'', 
$272,704,000, which shall be for operation and maintenance:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

         Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense

    For an additional amount for ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug 
Activities, Defense'', $186,000,000:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

             Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the ``Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund'', 
$290,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such funds shall be available to the Secretary of Defense, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of allowing 
the Director of the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
Organization to investigate, develop and provide equipment, supplies, 
services, training, facilities, personnel and funds to assist United 
States forces in the defeat of improvised explosive devices:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Defense may transfer funds provided 
herein to appropriations for military personnel; operation and 
maintenance; procurement; research, development, test and evaluation; 
and defense working capital funds to accomplish the purpose provided 
herein:  Provided further, That this transfer authority is in addition 
to any other transfer authority available to the Department of Defense: 
 Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 
15 days prior to making transfers from this appropriation, notify the 
congressional defense committees in writing of the details of any such 
transfer:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For an additional amount for the ``Office of the Inspector 
General'', $10,262,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

    Sec. 9001.  Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded, if applicable) 
only if the President subsequently so designates all such amounts and 
transmits such designations to the Congress.
    Sec. 9002.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this title are in addition to amounts appropriated or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
2016.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 9003.  Upon the determination of the Secretary of Defense that 
such action is necessary in the national interest, the Secretary may, 
with the approval of the Office of Management and Budget, transfer up 
to $3,500,000,000 between the appropriations or funds made available to 
the Department of Defense in this title:  Provided, That the Secretary 
shall notify the Congress promptly of each transfer made pursuant to 
the authority in this section:  Provided further, That the authority 
provided in this section is in addition to any other transfer authority 
available to the Department of Defense and is subject to the same terms 
and conditions as the authority provided in section 8005 of this Act.
    Sec. 9004.  Supervision and administration costs and costs for 
design during construction associated with a construction project 
funded with appropriations available for operation and maintenance or 
the ``Afghanistan Security Forces Fund'' provided in this Act and 
executed in direct support of overseas contingency operations in 
Afghanistan, may be obligated at the time a construction contract is 
awarded:  Provided, That, for the purpose of this section, supervision 
and administration costs and costs for design during construction 
include all in-house Government costs.
    Sec. 9005.  From funds made available in this title, the Secretary 
of Defense may purchase for use by military and civilian employees of 
the Department of Defense in the U.S. Central Command area of 
responsibility: (a) passenger motor vehicles up to a limit of $75,000 
per vehicle; and (b) heavy and light armored vehicles for the physical 
security of personnel or for force protection purposes up to a limit of 
$400,000 per vehicle, notwithstanding price or other limitations 
applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying vehicles.
    Sec. 9006.  Not to exceed $5,000,000 of the amounts appropriated by 
this title under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'' may be 
used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to fund the 
Commanders' Emergency Response Program (CERP), for the purpose of 
enabling military commanders in Afghanistan to respond to urgent, 
small-scale, humanitarian relief and reconstruction requirements within 
their areas of responsibility:  Provided, That each project (including 
any ancillary or related elements in connection with such project) 
executed under this authority shall not exceed $2,000,000:  Provided 
further, That not later than 45 days after the end of each 6 months of 
the fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report regarding the source of funds 
and the allocation and use of funds during that 6-month period that 
were made available pursuant to the authority provided in this section 
or under any other provision of law for the purposes described herein:  
Provided further, That, not later than 30 days after the end of each 
fiscal year quarter, the Army shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees quarterly commitment, obligation, and expenditure data for 
the CERP in Afghanistan:  Provided further, That not less than 15 days 
before making funds available pursuant to the authority provided in 
this section or under any other provision of law for the purposes 
described herein for a project with a total anticipated cost for 
completion of $500,000 or more, the Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a written notice containing each of 
the following:
            (1) The location, nature and purpose of the proposed 
        project, including how the project is intended to advance the 
        military campaign plan for the country in which it is to be 
        carried out.
            (2) The budget, implementation timeline with milestones, 
        and completion date for the proposed project, including any 
        other CERP funding that has been or is anticipated to be 
        contributed to the completion of the project.
            (3) A plan for the sustainment of the proposed project, 
        including the agreement with either the host nation, a non-
        Department of Defense agency of the United States Government or 
        a third-party contributor to finance the sustainment of the 
        activities and maintenance of any equipment or facilities to be 
        provided through the proposed project.
    Sec. 9007.  Funds available to the Department of Defense for 
operation and maintenance may be used, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, to provide supplies, services, transportation, 
including airlift and sealift, and other logistical support to 
coalition forces supporting military and stability operations in 
Afghanistan and to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall provide quarterly reports 
to the congressional defense committees regarding support provided 
under this section.
    Sec. 9008.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be obligated or expended by 
the United States Government for a purpose as follows:
            (1) To establish any military installation or base for the 
        purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
        States Armed Forces in Iraq.
            (2) To exercise United States control over any oil resource 
        of Iraq.
            (3) To establish any military installation or base for the 
        purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United 
        States Armed Forces in Afghanistan.
    Sec. 9009.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used in contravention of the following laws enacted or regulations 
promulgated to implement the United Nations Convention Against Torture 
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (done at 
New York on December 10, 1984):
            (1) Section 2340A of title 18, United States Code.
            (2) Section 2242 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
        Restructuring Act of 1998 (division G of Public Law 105-277; 
        112 Stat. 2681-822; 8 U.S.C. 1231 note) and regulations 
        prescribed thereto, including regulations under part 208 of 
        title 8, Code of Federal Regulations, and part 95 of title 22, 
        Code of Federal Regulations.
            (3) Sections 1002 and 1003 of the Department of Defense, 
        Emergency Supplemental Appropriations to Address Hurricanes in 
        the Gulf of Mexico, and Pandemic Influenza Act, 2006 (Public 
        Law 109-148).
    Sec. 9010.  None of the funds provided for the ``Afghanistan 
Security Forces Fund'' (ASFF) may be obligated prior to the approval of 
a financial and activity plan by the Afghanistan Resources Oversight 
Council (AROC) of the Department of Defense:  Provided, That the AROC 
must approve the requirement and acquisition plan for any service 
requirements in excess of $50,000,000 annually and any non-standard 
equipment requirements in excess of $100,000,000 using ASFF:  Provided 
further, That the Department of Defense must certify to the 
congressional defense committees that the AROC has convened and 
approved a process for ensuring compliance with the requirements in the 
preceding proviso and accompanying report language for the ASFF.
    Sec. 9011.  Funds made available in this title to the Department of 
Defense for operation and maintenance may be used to purchase items 
having an investment unit cost of not more than $250,000:  Provided, 
That, upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such action 
is necessary to meet the operational requirements of a Commander of a 
Combatant Command engaged in contingency operations overseas, such 
funds may be used to purchase items having an investment item unit cost 
of not more than $500,000.
    Sec. 9012.  From funds made available to the Department of Defense 
in this title under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force'', up to $140,000,000 may be used by the Secretary of Defense, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, to support United States 
Government transition activities in Iraq by funding the operations and 
activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq and security 
assistance teams, including life support, transportation and personal 
security, and facilities renovation and construction, and site closeout 
activities prior to returning sites to the Government of Iraq:  
Provided, That, to the extent authorized under the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, the operations and activities 
that may be carried out by the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq 
may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, include non-
operational training activities in support of Iraqi Minister of Defense 
and Counter Terrorism Service personnel in an institutional environment 
to address capability gaps, integrate processes relating to 
intelligence, air sovereignty, combined arms, logistics and 
maintenance, and to manage and integrate defense-related institutions:  
Provided further, That not later than 30 days following the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for transitioning 
any such training activities that they determine are needed after the 
end of fiscal year 2016, to existing or new contracts for the sale of 
defense articles or defense services consistent with the provisions of 
the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.):  Provided 
further, That, not less than 15 days before making funds available 
pursuant to the authority provided in this section, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a written 
notice containing a detailed justification and timeline for the 
operations and activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq 
at each site where such operations and activities will be conducted 
during fiscal year 2016.
    Sec. 9013.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used with respect to Syria in contravention of the War Powers 
Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.), including for the introduction of 
United States armed or military forces into hostilities in Syria, into 
situations in Syria where imminent involvement in hostilities is 
clearly indicated by the circumstances, or into Syrian territory, 
airspace, or waters while equipped for combat, in contravention of the 
congressional consultation and reporting requirements of sections 3 and 
4 of that law (50 U.S.C. 1542 and 1543).
    Sec. 9014.  For the ``Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative'' as 
authorized by section 1251 of S. 1376, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, as reported, $300,000,000 is 
hereby appropriated to provide appropriate security assistance and 
intelligence support, including training, equipment, and logistics 
support, supplies and services, to military and other security forces 
of the Government of Ukraine:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 9015.  None of the funds in this Act may be made available for 
the transfer of additional C-130 cargo aircraft to the Afghanistan 
National Security Forces or the Afghanistan Air Force until the 
Department of Defense provides a report to the congressional defense 
committees of the Afghanistan Air Force's medium airlift requirements. 
The report should identify Afghanistan's ability to utilize and 
maintain existing medium lift aircraft in the inventory and the best 
alternative platform, if necessary, to provide additional support to 
the Afghanistan Air Force's current medium airlift capacity.
    Sec. 9016.  The Secretary of Defense may obligate and expend funds 
made available to the Department of Defense in this title for 
additional costs associated with projects funded with amounts provided 
under the heading ``Afghanistan Infrastructure Fund'' in prior Acts:  
Provided, That such costs shall be limited to contract changes 
resulting from inflation, market fluctuation, rate adjustments, and 
other necessary contract actions to complete the projects, and 
associated supervision and administration costs and costs for design 
during construction:  Provided further, That the Secretary may not use 
more than $100,000,000 under the authority provided in this section:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall highlight such contract 
changes and adjustments in annual reports to the congressional defense 
committees.
    Sec. 9017.  It is the sense of the Senate that Congress should 
enact an updated Authorization for Use of Military Force to clarify the 
United States military role against the Islamic State of Iraq and the 
Levant (ISIL).
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2016''.
                                                       Calendar No. 115

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1558

                          [Report No. 114-63]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

  Making appropriations for Department of Defense for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 11, 2015

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
