[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5164 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5164

To provide for a permanent extension of the enforcement instruction on 
    supervision requirements for outpatient therapeutic services in 
               critical access and small rural hospitals.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 3, 2016

  Ms. Jenkins of Kansas (for herself, Mr. Loebsack, and Mr. Smith of 
  Nebraska) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
   Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for a permanent extension of the enforcement instruction on 
    supervision requirements for outpatient therapeutic services in 
               critical access and small rural hospitals.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Rural Hospital Regulatory Relief Act 
of 2016''.

SEC. 2. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF ENFORCEMENT INSTRUCTION ON SUPERVISION 
              REQUIREMENTS FOR OUTPATIENT THERAPEUTIC SERVICES IN 
              CRITICAL ACCESS AND SMALL RURAL HOSPITALS.

    Section 1834 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(t) Permanent Extension of Enforcement Instruction on Supervision 
Requirements for Outpatient Therapeutic Services in Critical Access and 
Small Rural Hospitals.--On and after the date of the enactment of this 
subsection, the Secretary shall continue to apply the enforcement 
instruction described in the notice of the Centers for Medicare & 
Medicaid Services entitled `Enforcement Instruction on Supervision 
Requirements for Outpatient Therapeutic Services in Critical Access and 
Small Rural Hospitals for CY 2013', dated November 1, 2012 (providing 
for an exception to the restatement and clarification under the final 
rulemaking changes to the Medicare hospital outpatient prospective 
payment system and calendar year 2009 payment rates (published in the 
Federal Register on November 18, 2008, 73 Fed. Reg. 68702 through 
68704) with respect to requirements for direct supervision by 
physicians for therapeutic hospital outpatient services), and extended 
by section 1 of Public Law 113-198 and section 1 of Public Law 114-
112.''.
                                 <all>
