[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5197 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5197

   To provide assistance to foreign countries to interdict or seize 
shipments of items in contravention of United Nations Security Council 
            Resolution 1701 or 2231, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 11, 2016

 Mr. Kennedy (for himself, Mr. Gibson, Mr. Ashford, Mr. Garamendi, and 
 Mr. Peters) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
  Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To provide assistance to foreign countries to interdict or seize 
shipments of items in contravention of United Nations Security Council 
            Resolution 1701 or 2231, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This act may be cited as the ``Interdictions Assistance Act''.

SEC. 2. ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES TO INTERDICT OR SEIZE SHIPMENTS 
              OF ITEMS IN CONTRAVENTION OF UNITED NATIONS SECURITY 
              COUNCIL RESOLUTION 1701 OR 2231.

    (a) Authority.--From funds made available for the Department of 
Defense for fiscal year 2017 to carry out section 1234 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, the Secretary of 
Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, is authorized 
to provide assistance to foreign countries to interdict or seize 
shipments of items in contravention of United Nations Security Council 
Resolution 1701 (2006) or 2231 (2015).
    (b) Types of Assistance.--Assistance authorized under subsection 
(a) may include the following:
            (1) Assistance to any foreign country for the following:
                    (A) Logistical and military support provided by 
                that country to interdict or seize shipments of items 
                described in subsection (a), whether by sea, air, or 
                land.
                    (B) Storage, transfer, or destruction of shipments 
                of items described in subsection (a) that are 
                interdicted or seized.
            (2) Training to enhance the ability of a foreign country to 
        interdict vessels carrying shipments of items described in 
        subsection (a).
    (c) Amounts of Assistance.--A foreign country may not receive 
assistance under the authority of subsection (a) in an amount that 
exceeds $2,000,000 in any fiscal year. Such assistance shall be 
provided in a manner consistent with the requirements relating to 
amounts of reimbursement under section 1233(c) of National Defense 
Authorization Act for 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 294)).
    (d) Prohibition on Contractual Obligations To Make Payments.--The 
Secretary of Defense may not enter into any contractual obligation to 
provide assistance under the authority in subsection (a).
    (e) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) notify the congressional defense committees not less 
        than 15 days before providing any assistance under the 
        authority in subsection (a); and
            (2) submit to the congressional defense committees on a 
        quarterly basis a report on any assistance made under the 
        authority in subsection (a) during such quarter, including a 
        description of the items interdicted or seized, a description 
        of whether the items are stored, transferred, or destroyed, 
        and, if the items are stored, a description of the location at 
        which the items are stored.
    (f) Congressional Defense Committees Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``congressional defense committee'' has the meaning given such 
term in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
                                 <all>
