[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3295 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3295

       To make supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2015.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 29, 2015

 Mr. Cummings introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Appropriations, and in addition to the Committee on the 
 Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
       To make supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2015.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for fiscal year 2015, and for other purposes, namely:

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                       Office of Justice Programs

               state and local law enforcement assistance

    For an additional amount for ``State and Local Law Enforcement 
Assistance'', $140,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2016, of which--
            (1) $115,000,000 is for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice 
        Assistance Grant program, of which $15,000,000 is for the 
        Edward Byrne Memorial criminal justice innovation program;
            (2) $5,000,000 is for Drug Courts;
            (3) $5,000,000 is for mental health courts;
            (4) $10,000,000 is for competitive and evidence-based 
        programs to reduce gun crime and gang violence; and
            (5) $5,000,000 is for a veterans treatment courts program.

                       juvenile justice programs

    For an additional amount for ``Juvenile Justice Programs'', 
$10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016, for 
community-based violence prevention initiatives, including for public 
health approaches to reducing shootings and violence.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

             community oriented policing services programs

    For an additional amount for ``Community Oriented Policing Services 
Programs'', $30,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016, 
of which--
            (1) $15,000,000 is for competitive grants to State law 
        enforcement agencies in States with high seizures of precursor 
        chemicals, finished methamphetamine, laboratories, and 
        laboratory dump seizures:  Provided, That funds appropriated 
        under this paragraph shall be utilized for investigative 
        purposes to locate or investigate illicit activities, including 
        precursor diversion, laboratories, or methamphetamine 
        traffickers; and
            (2) $15,000,000 is for competitive grants to statewide law 
        enforcement agencies in States with high rates of primary 
        treatment admissions for heroin and other opioids:  Provided, 
        That these funds shall be utilized for investigative purposes 
        to locate or investigate illicit activities, including 
        activities related to the distribution of heroin or unlawful 
        distribution of prescription opioids, or unlawful heroin and 
        prescription opioid traffickers through statewide 
        collaboration.

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                     Small Business Administration

                  entrepreneurial development programs

    For an additional amount for ``Entrepreneurial Development 
Programs'', $4,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016.

                     business loans program account

    For an additional amount for ``Business Loans Program Account'', 
$1,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the cost of direct 
loans.

                          DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    training and employment services

    For an additional amount for ``Training and Employment Services'', 
$265,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016.

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                       maternal and child health

    For an additional amount for the Healthy Start Initiative under 
section 330H of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c-8), 
$50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016.

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

                       substance abuse treatment

    For an additional amount for drug court grants as authorized under 
section 509 of the Public Health Service Act, $10,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2016.

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                       Public and Indian Housing

                    choice neighborhoods initiative

    For an additional amount for ``Choice Neighborhoods Initiative'', 
$170,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016.

                   Community Planning and Development

                       community development fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Community Development Fund'', 
$500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016, for 
necessary expenses related to emergency response, long-term recovery, 
restoration of infrastructure and housing, and economic revitalization 
in the most impacted and distressed areas resulting from sudden 
violence, civil unrest or other major disturbance affecting human life 
and safety in calendar year 2015, for activities authorized under title 
I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 
et seq.):  Provided, That funds shall be awarded to a State, tribe, or 
unit of general local government as a grantee at the discretion of the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for distressed communities 
determined by the Secretary to be distressed due to insufficient 
capacity to respond to and recover from the unanticipated event and 
objectively measurable criteria such as high levels of racial or income 
segregation, or both, low levels of employment among 16 to 64 year 
olds, low levels of college enrollment or employment for low-income 
youth aged 17 to 25, concentrations of poor-performing schools, high 
rates of infant mortality, large numbers of vacant and abandoned homes, 
and low-income populations in close proximity to brownfields or other 
environmentally hazardous areas:  Provided further, That prior to the 
obligation of funds, a grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary for 
approval detailing the proposed use of all funds, including criteria 
for eligibility and how the use of these funds will address long-term 
recovery and restoration of infrastructure and housing and economic 
revitalization in the most impacted and distressed areas:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall by notice specify the criteria for 
approval of such plans within 45 days of enactment of this Act:  
Provided further, That if the Secretary determines that a plan does not 
meet such criteria, the Secretary shall disapprove the plan:  Provided 
further, That funds allocated under this heading shall not be 
considered relevant to the non-emergency formula allocations made 
pursuant to section 106 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306):  Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
provide grantees with training on grant management, including on the 
use of contracts and subrecipient agreements, and shall require 
grantees to incorporate performance requirements and penalties into any 
such contracts or subrecipient agreements:  Provided further, That, in 
administering the funds under this heading, the Secretary may waive, or 
specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or 
regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with the 
obligation by the Secretary or the use by the recipient of these funds 
(except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, 
labor standards, and the environment) pursuant to a determination by 
the Secretary that good cause exists for the waiver or alternative 
requirement and that such action is not inconsistent with the overall 
purposes of title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.):  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary may use up to 30 percent of 
these funds to supplement existing, competitively awarded agreements 
for technical assistance to provide immediate community response, 
recovery, and revitalization assistance to affected communities:  
Provided further, That, of the funds made available under this heading, 
up to $10,000,000 may be transferred to ``Program Office Salaries and 
Expenses--Community Planning and Development'' or to ``Department of 
Housing and Urban Development--Office of Inspector General'', for 
necessary costs, including information technology costs, of 
administering and overseeing funds made available under this heading.

            Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes

                         lead hazard reduction

    For an additional amount for ``Lead Hazard Reduction'', 
$30,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                             moving-to-work

    Sec. 101. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
extend the current Moving-to-Work agreements of previously designated 
participating agencies until the end of each such agency's fiscal year 
2028 under the same terms and conditions of such current agreements, 
except for any changes to such terms or conditions otherwise mutually 
agreed upon by the Secretary and any such agency and such extension 
agreements shall prohibit any statutory offset of any reserve balances 
equal to four months of operating expenses. Any such reserve balances 
that exceed such amount shall remain available to any such agency for 
all permissible purposes under such agreement unless subject to a 
statutory offset. In addition to other reporting requirements, all 
Moving-to-Work agencies shall report financial data to the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development as specified by the Secretary, so that 
the effect of Moving-to-Work policy changes can be measured.

                         emergency designation

    Sec. 102. Each amount provided in this Act is designated by 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, except that each amount shall be available only if the 
President subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits 
such designations to the Congress.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Rebuilding Urban Inner Cities Is 
Long Overdue Act of 2015'' or the ``REBUILD Act''.
                                 <all>
