[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2038 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2038

  To authorize the conveyance of certain Coast Guard property in Tok, 
                    Alaska, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 27, 2015

 Mr. Young of Alaska introduced the following bill; which was referred 
         to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To authorize the conveyance of certain Coast Guard property in Tok, 
                    Alaska, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF COAST GUARD PROPERTY IN TOK, ALASKA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Commandant of the Coast Guard may 
convey all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
the covered property, upon payment to the United States of the fair 
market value of the covered property.
    (b) Right of First Refusal.--The Tanana Chiefs' Conference shall 
have the right of first refusal with respect to purchase of the covered 
property under this section.
    (c) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the covered 
property shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
Commandant.
    (d) Fair Market Value.--The fair market value of the covered 
property shall be--
            (1) determined by appraisal; and
            (2) subject to the approval of the Commandant.
    (e) Costs of Conveyance.--The responsibility for all reasonable and 
necessary costs, including real estate transaction and environmental 
documentation costs, associated with a conveyance under this section 
shall be determined by the Commandant and the purchaser.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Commandant may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with a conveyance 
under this section as the Commandant considers appropriate and 
reasonable to protect the interests of the United States.
    (g) Deposit of Proceeds.--Any proceeds received by the United 
States from a conveyance under this section shall be deposited in the 
Coast Guard Housing Fund established under section 687 of title 14, 
United States Code.
    (h) Covered Property Defined.--
            (1) In general.--In this section, the term ``covered 
        property'' means the approximately 3.25 acres of real property 
        (including all improvements located on the property) that are--
                    (A) located in Tok, Alaska;
                    (B) under the administrative control of the Coast 
                Guard; and
                    (C) described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Description.--The property described in this paragraph 
        is the following:
2-PLEX - Jackie Circle, Units A and B
    Lots 11, 12 and 13, Block ``G'', Second Addition to Hartsell 
Subdivision, Section 20, Township 18 North, Range 13 East, Copper River 
Meridian, Alaska as appears by Plat No. 72-39 filed in the Office of 
the Recorder for the Fairbanks Recording District of Alaska, bearing 
seal dated 25 September 1972, all containing approximately 1.25 Acres.
4-PLEX - West ``C'' and Willow, Units A, B, C and D
    Beginning at a point being the SE corner of the SE \1/4\ of the SE 
\1/4\ Section 24, Township 18 North, Range 12 East, Copper River 
Meridian, Alaska; thence running westerly along the south line of said 
SE \1/4\ of the NE 1/4 260 feet; thence northerly parallel to the ease 
line of said SE \1/4\ of the NE 1/4 335 feet; thence easterly parallel 
to the south line 260 feet; thence south 335 feet along the east 
boundary of Section 24 to the point of beginning; all containing 
approximately 2.0 acres.
                                 <all>
