[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1779 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1779

   To reauthorize the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act; and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 14, 2015

  Mr. Yarmuth (for himself and Mr. Reichert) introduced the following 
    bill; which was referred to the Committee on Education and the 
  Workforce, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To reauthorize the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act; and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Runaway and Homeless Youth and 
Trafficking Prevention Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. RUNAWAY AND HOMELESS YOUTH AND TRAFFICKING PREVENTION.

    (a) References.--Except as otherwise specifically provided, 
whenever in this section an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms 
of an amendment to, or repeal of, a provision, the amendment or repeal 
shall be considered to be made to a provision of the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.).
    (b) Findings.--Section 302 (42 U.S.C. 5701) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``age, gender, and 
        culturally and'' before ``linguistically appropriate'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``outside the welfare 
        system and the law enforcement system'' and inserting ``, in 
        collaboration with public assistance systems, the law 
        enforcement system, and the child welfare system'';
            (3) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) by inserting ``a safe place to live and'' after 
                ``youth need''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (4) in paragraph (6), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) runaway and homeless youth are at a high risk of 
        becoming victims of sexual exploitation and trafficking in 
        persons.''.
    (c) Basic Center Grant Program.--
            (1) Grants for centers and services.--Section 311(a) (42 
        U.S.C. 5711(a)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``services'' and 
                all that follows through the period and inserting 
                ``safe shelter and services, including trauma-informed 
                services, for runaway and homeless youth and, if 
                appropriate, services for the families of such youth, 
                including (if appropriate) individuals identified by 
                such youth as family.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``mental health,'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) in clause (i), by striking ``21 
                                days; and'' and inserting ``30 days;'';
                                    (II) in clause (ii)--
                                            (aa) by inserting ``age, 
                                        gender, and culturally and 
                                        linguistically appropriate to 
                                        the extent practicable'' before 
                                        ``individual'';
                                            (bb) by inserting ``, as 
                                        appropriate,'' after ``group''; 
                                        and
                                            (cc) by striking ``as 
                                        appropriate'' and inserting 
                                        ``including (if appropriate) 
                                        counseling for individuals 
                                        identified by such youth as 
                                        family''; and
                                    (III) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
                            ``(iii) suicide prevention services; and''; 
                        and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (C)--
                                    (I) in clause (ii), by inserting 
                                ``age, gender, and culturally and 
                                linguistically appropriate to the 
                                extent practicable'' before ``home-
                                based services'';
                                    (II) in clause (iii), by striking 
                                ``and'' at the end;
                                    (III) in clause (iv), by striking 
                                ``diseases.'' and inserting 
                                ``infections;''; and
                                    (IV) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
                            ``(v) trauma-informed and gender-responsive 
                        services for runaway or homeless youth, 
                        including such youth who are victims of 
                        trafficking in persons or sexual exploitation; 
                        and
                            ``(vi) an assessment of family engagement 
                        in support and reunification (if reunification 
                        is appropriate), interventions, and services 
                        for parents or legal guardians of such youth, 
                        or (if appropriate) individuals identified by 
                        such youth as family.''.
            (2) Eligibility; plan requirements.--Section 312 (42 U.S.C. 
        5712) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``, or 
                        (if appropriate) individuals identified by such 
                        youth as family,'' after ``parents or legal 
                        guardians'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (6), by striking 
                        ``cultural minority and persons with limited 
                        ability to speak English'' and inserting 
                        ``cultural minority, persons with limited 
                        ability to speak English, and runaway or 
                        homeless youth who are victims of trafficking 
                        in persons or sexual exploitation'';
                            (iii) by striking paragraph (7) and 
                        inserting the following:
            ``(7) shall keep adequate statistical records profiling the 
        youth and family members of such youth whom the applicant 
        serves, including demographic information on and the number 
        of--
                    ``(A) such youth who are not referred to out-of-
                home shelter services;
                    ``(B) such youth who are members of vulnerable or 
                underserved populations;
                    ``(C) such youth who are victims of trafficking in 
                persons or sexual exploitation, disaggregated by--
                            ``(i) such youth who have been coerced or 
                        forced into a commercial sex act, as defined in 
                        section 103 of the Trafficking Victims 
                        Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102);
                            ``(ii) such youth who have been coerced or 
                        forced into other forms of labor; and
                            ``(iii) such youth who have engaged in a 
                        commercial sex act, as so defined, for any 
                        reason other than by coercion or force;
                    ``(D) such youth who are pregnant or parenting;
                    ``(E) such youth who have been involved in the 
                child welfare system; and
                    ``(F) such youth who have been involved in the 
                juvenile justice system;'';
                            (iv) by redesignating paragraphs (8) 
                        through (13) as paragraphs (9) through (14);
                            (v) by inserting after paragraph (7) the 
                        following:
            ``(8) shall ensure that--
                    ``(A) the records described in paragraph (7), on an 
                individual runaway or homeless youth, shall not be 
                disclosed without the consent of the individual youth 
                and of the parent or legal guardian of such youth or 
                (if appropriate) an individual identified by such youth 
                as family, to anyone other than another agency 
                compiling statistical records or a government agency 
                involved in the disposition of criminal charges against 
                an individual runaway or homeless youth; and
                    ``(B) reports or other documents based on the 
                statistics described in paragraph (7) shall not 
                disclose the identity of any individual runaway or 
                homeless youth;'';
                            (vi) in paragraph (9), as so redesignated, 
                        by striking ``statistical summaries'' and 
                        inserting ``statistics'';
                            (vii) in paragraph (13)(C), as so 
                        redesignated--
                                    (I) by striking clause (i) and 
                                inserting:
                            ``(i) the number and characteristics of 
                        runaway and homeless youth, and youth at risk 
                        of family separation, who participate in the 
                        project, including such information on--
                                    ``(I) such youth (including both 
                                types of such participating youth) who 
                                are victims of trafficking in persons 
                                or sexual exploitation, disaggregated 
                                by--
                                            ``(aa) such youth who have 
                                        been coerced or forced into a 
                                        commercial sex act, as defined 
                                        in section 103 of the 
                                        Trafficking Victims Protection 
                                        Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102);
                                            ``(bb) such youth who have 
                                        been coerced or forced into 
                                        other forms of labor; and
                                            ``(cc) such youth who have 
                                        engaged in a commercial sex 
                                        act, as so defined, for any 
                                        reason other than by coercion 
                                        or force;
                                    ``(II) such youth who are pregnant 
                                or parenting;
                                    ``(III) such youth who have been 
                                involved in the child welfare system; 
                                and
                                    ``(IV) such youth who have been 
                                involved in the juvenile justice 
                                system; and''; and
                                    (II) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``and'' at the end;
                            (viii) in paragraph (14), as so 
                        redesignated, by striking the period and 
                        inserting ``for natural disasters, inclement 
                        weather, and mental health emergencies;''; and
                            (ix) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(15) shall provide age, gender, and culturally and 
        linguistically appropriate services to the extent practicable 
        to runaway and homeless youth; and
            ``(16) shall assist youth in completing the Free 
        Application for Federal Student Aid described in section 483 of 
        the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1090).''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``age, gender, and 
                                culturally and linguistically 
                                appropriate to the extent practicable'' 
                                after ``provide'';
                                    (II) by striking ``families 
                                (including unrelated individuals in the 
                                family households) of such youth'' and 
                                inserting ``families of such youth 
                                (including unrelated individuals in the 
                                family households of such youth and, if 
                                appropriate, individuals identified by 
                                such youth as family)''; and
                                    (III) by inserting ``suicide 
                                prevention,'' after ``physical health 
                                care,''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``, 
                        including training on trauma-informed and 
                        youth-centered care'' after ``home-based 
                        services''.
            (3) Approval of applications.--Section 313(b) (42 U.S.C. 
        5713(b)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``priority to'' and all that 
                follows through ``who'' and inserting ``priority to 
                eligible applicants who'';
                    (B) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period; 
                and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (2).
    (d) Transitional Living Grant Program.--Section 322(a) (42 U.S.C. 
5714-2(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by inserting ``age, gender, and culturally and 
                linguistically appropriate to the extent practicable'' 
                before ``information and counseling services''; and
                    (B) by striking ``job attainment skills, and mental 
                and physical health care'' and inserting ``job 
                attainment skills, mental and physical health care, and 
                suicide prevention services'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (8) and (9) 
        through (16) as paragraphs (5) through (10) and (12) through 
        (19), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) to provide counseling to homeless youth and to 
        encourage, if appropriate, the involvement in such counseling 
        of their parents or legal guardians, or (if appropriate) 
        individuals identified by such youth as family;
            ``(4) to provide aftercare services, if possible, to 
        homeless youth who have received shelter and services from a 
        transitional living youth project, including (to the extent 
        practicable) such youth who, after receiving such shelter and 
        services, relocate to a State other than the State in which 
        such project is located;'';
            (4) in paragraph (9), as so redesignated--
                    (A) by inserting ``age, gender, and culturally and 
                linguistically appropriate to the extent practicable'' 
                after ``referral of homeless youth to'';
                    (B) by striking ``and health care programs'' and 
                inserting ``mental health service and health care 
                programs, including programs providing wrap-around 
                services to victims of trafficking in persons or sexual 
                exploitation,''; and
                    (C) by striking ``such services for youths;'' and 
                inserting ``such programs described in this 
                paragraph;'';
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (10), as so redesignated, 
        the following:
            ``(11) to develop a plan to provide age, gender, and 
        culturally and linguistically appropriate services to the 
        extent practicable that address the needs of homeless and 
        street youth;'';
            (6) in paragraph (12), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``the applicant and statistical'' through ``who participate in 
        such project,'' and inserting ``the applicant, statistical 
        summaries describing the number, the characteristics, and the 
        demographic information of the homeless youth who participate 
        in such project, including the prevalence of trafficking in 
        persons and sexual exploitation of such youth,''; and
            (7) in paragraph (19), as so redesignated, by inserting 
        ``regarding responses to natural disasters, inclement weather, 
        and mental health emergencies'' after ``management plan''.
    (e) Coordinating, Training, Research, and Other Activities.--
            (1) Coordination.--Section 341 (42 U.S.C. 5714-21) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``safety, well-being,'' after ``health,''; 
                and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``other Federal 
                entities'' and inserting ``the Department of Housing 
                and Urban Development, the Department of Education, the 
                Department of Labor, and the Department of Justice''.
            (2) Grants for technical assistance and training.--Section 
        342 (42 U.S.C. 5714-22) is amended by inserting ``, including 
        onsite and web-based techniques, such as on-demand and online 
        learning,'' before ``to public and private entities''.
            (3) Grants for research, evaluation, demonstration, and 
        service projects.--Section 343 (42 U.S.C. 5714-23) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (5)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by 
                                inserting ``violence, trauma, and'' 
                                before ``sexual abuse and assault'';
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``sexual abuse and assault; 
                                and'' and inserting ``sexual abuse or 
                                assault, trafficking in persons, or 
                                sexual exploitation;'';
                                    (III) in subparagraph (C), by 
                                striking ``who have been sexually 
                                victimized'' and inserting ``who are 
                                victims of sexual abuse or assault, 
                                trafficking in persons, or sexual 
                                exploitation''; and
                                    (IV) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
                    ``(D) best practices for identifying and providing 
                age, gender, and culturally and linguistically 
                appropriate services to the extent practicable to--
                            ``(i) vulnerable and underserved youth 
                        populations; and
                            ``(ii) youth who are victims of trafficking 
                        in persons or sexual exploitation; and
                    ``(E) verifying youth as runaway or homeless to 
                complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid 
                described in section 483 of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1090);'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (9), by striking ``and'' 
                        at the end;
                            (iii) in paragraph (10), by striking the 
                        period and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(11) examining the intersection between the runaway and 
        homeless youth populations and trafficking in persons, 
        including noting whether such youth who are victims of 
        trafficking in persons were previously involved in the child 
        welfare or juvenile justice systems.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(2)(B), by inserting ``, 
                including such youth who are victims of trafficking in 
                persons or sexual exploitation'' after ``runaway or 
                homeless youth''.
            (4) Periodic estimate of incidence and prevalence of youth 
        homelessness.--Section 345 (42 U.S.C. 5714-25) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``13'' and 
                                inserting ``12''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``and'' at the 
                                end;
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking the 
                        period and inserting a semicolon; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) that includes demographic information about and 
        characteristics of runaway or homeless youth, including such 
        youth who are victims of trafficking in persons or sexual 
        exploitation; and
            ``(4) that does not disclose the identity of any runaway or 
        homeless youth.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``13'' and inserting ``12'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end;
                            (iii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                        subparagraph (C);
                            (iv) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following:
                    ``(B) incidences, if any, of--
                            ``(i) such individuals who are victims of 
                        trafficking in persons; or
                            ``(ii) such individuals who are victims of 
                        sexual exploitation; and''; and
                            (v) in subparagraph (C), as so 
                        redesignated--
                                    (I) in clause (ii), by striking ``; 
                                and'' and inserting ``, including 
                                mental health services;''; and
                                    (II) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
                            ``(iv) access to education and job 
                        training; and''.
    (f) Sexual Abuse Prevention Program.--Section 351 (42 U.S.C. 5714-
41) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting ``public and'' before 
                ``nonprofit''; and
                    (B) by striking ``prostitution, or sexual 
                exploitation.'' and inserting ``violence, trafficking 
                in persons, or sexual exploitation.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Eligibility Requirements.--To be eligible to receive a grant 
under subsection (a), an applicant shall certify to the Secretary that 
such applicant has systems in place to ensure that such applicant can 
provide age, gender, and culturally and linguistically appropriate 
services to the extent practicable to all youth described in subsection 
(a).''.
    (g) General Provisions.--
            (1) Reports.--Section 382(a) (42 U.S.C. 5715(a)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) 
                        through (D) as subparagraphs (C) through (E), 
                        respectively; and
                            (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following:
                    ``(B) collecting data on trafficking in persons and 
                sexual exploitation of runaway and homeless youth;''; 
                and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking subparagraph (A) and 
                        inserting the following:
                    ``(A) the number and characteristics of homeless 
                youth served by such projects, including--
                            ``(i) such youth who are victims of 
                        trafficking in persons or sexual exploitation;
                            ``(ii) such youth who are pregnant or 
                        parenting;
                            ``(iii) such youth who have been involved 
                        in the child welfare system; and
                            ``(iv) such youth who have been involved in 
                        the juvenile justice system;''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (F), by striking 
                        ``intrafamily problems'' and inserting 
                        ``problems within the family, including (if 
                        appropriate) individuals identified by such 
                        youth as family,''.
            (2) Nondiscrimination.--Part F is amended by inserting 
        after section 386A (42 U.S.C. 5732-1) the following:

``SEC. 386B. NONDISCRIMINATION.

    ``(a) In General.--No person in the United States shall, on the 
basis of actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin, 
sex, gender identity (as defined in section 249(c)(4) of title 18, 
United States Code), sexual orientation, or disability, be excluded 
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to 
discrimination under any program or activity funded in whole or in part 
with funds made available under this title.
    ``(b) Exception.--If sex segregation or sex-specific programming is 
necessary to the essential operation of a program, nothing in this 
section shall prevent any such program or activity from consideration 
of an individual's sex. In such circumstances, grantees may meet the 
requirements of this section by providing comparable services to 
individuals who cannot be provided with the sex-segregated or sex-
specific programming.
    ``(c) Disqualification.--The authority of the Secretary to enforce 
this section shall be the same as that provided for with respect to 
section 654 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9849).
    ``(d) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed, 
interpreted, or applied to supplant, displace, preempt, or otherwise 
limit the responsibilities and liabilities under other Federal or State 
civil rights laws.''.
            (3) Definitions.--Section 387 (42 U.S.C. 5732a) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (6), 
                and paragraphs (7) and (8), as paragraphs (2) through 
                (7), and paragraphs (9) and (10), respectively;
                    (B) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so 
                redesignated, the following:
            ``(1) Culturally and linguistically appropriate.--The term 
        `culturally and linguistically appropriate', with respect to 
        services, has the meaning given the term `culturally and 
        linguistically appropriate services' in the `National Standards 
        for Culturally and Linguistically Appropriate Services in 
        Health and Health Care', issued in April 2013, by the Office of 
        Minority Health of the Department of Health and Human 
        Services.'';
                    (C) in paragraph (6)(B)(v), as so redesignated--
                            (i) by redesignating subclauses (II) 
                        through (IV) as subclauses (III) through (V), 
                        respectively;
                            (ii) by inserting after subclause (I), the 
                        following:
                                    ``(II) trafficking in persons;'';
                            (iii) in subclause (IV), as so 
                        redesignated--
                                    (I) by striking ``diseases'' and 
                                inserting ``infections''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``and'' at the 
                                end;
                            (iv) in subclause (V), as so redesignated, 
                        by striking the period and inserting ``; and''; 
                        and
                            (v) by adding at the end the following:
                                    ``(VI) suicide.'';
                    (D) in paragraph (7)(B), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``prostitution,'' and inserting ``trafficking 
                in persons,'';
                    (E) by inserting after paragraph (7), as so 
                redesignated, the following:
            ``(8) Trafficking in persons.--The term `trafficking in 
        persons' has the meaning given the term `severe forms of 
        trafficking in persons' in section 103 of the Trafficking 
        Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).'';
                    (F) in paragraph (9), as so redesignated--
                            (i) by inserting ``to homeless youth'' 
                        after ``provides''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, to establish a stable 
                        family or community supports,'' after ``self-
                        sufficient living''; and
                    (G) in paragraph (10)(B), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in clause (ii)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``or able'' after 
                                ``willing''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``or'' at the end;
                            (ii) in clause (iii), by striking the 
                        period and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iv) who is involved in the child welfare 
                        or juvenile justice system, but who is not 
                        receiving government-funded housing.''.
            (4) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 388(a) (42 
        U.S.C. 5751(a)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``$140,000,000'' 
                and all that follows through ``2013'', and inserting 
                ``such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2016 
                through 2020'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ``2009, 2010, 
                2011, 2012, and 2013'' and inserting ``2016 through 
                2020''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4), by striking ``$25,000,000'' 
                and all that follows through ``2013'', and inserting 
                ``such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2016 
                through 2020''.

SEC. 3. RESPONSE TO MISSING CHILDREN AND VICTIMS OF CHILD SEX 
              TRAFFICKING.

    (a) Missing Children's Assistance Act.--Section 404(b)(1)(P)(iii) 
of the Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5773(b)(1)(P)(iii)) 
is amended by striking ``child prostitution'' and inserting ``child sex 
trafficking''.
    (b) Crime Control Act of 1990.--Section 3702 of the Crime Control 
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 5780) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as 
                subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following:
                    ``(B) a recent photograph of the child, if 
                available;''; and
            (3) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``60 days'' 
                and inserting ``30 days'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) in subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) by inserting ``State and local child 
                        welfare systems and'' before ``the National 
                        Center for Missing and Exploited Children''; 
                        and
                            (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
                        inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) grant permission to the National Crime 
                Information Center Terminal Contractor for the State to 
                update the missing person record in the National Crime 
                Information Center computer networks with additional 
                information learned during the investigation relating 
                to the missing person.''.

SEC. 4. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Runaway and Homeless Youth and 
Trafficking Prevention Act of 2015''.
                                 <all>
