[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3117 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 541
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3117

                          [Report No. 114-290]

Making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 29, 2016

    Mr. Graham, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, $6,006,296,000, of which up to 
$660,231,000 may remain available until September 30, 2018, and of 
which up to $1,604,755,000 may remain available until expended for 
Worldwide Security Protection:  Provided, That funds made available 
under this heading shall be allocated in accordance with paragraphs (1) 
through (4) as follows:
            (1) Human resources.--For necessary expenses for training, 
        human resources management, and salaries, including employment 
        without regard to civil service and classification laws of 
        persons on a temporary basis (not to exceed $700,000), as 
        authorized by section 801 of the United States Information and 
        Educational Exchange Act of 1948, $2,606,152,000, of which up 
        to $463,417,000 is for Worldwide Security Protection.
            (2) Overseas programs.--For necessary expenses for the 
        regional bureaus of the Department of State and overseas 
        activities as authorized by law, $1,477,436,000.
            (3) Diplomatic policy and support.--For necessary expenses 
        for the functional bureaus of the Department of State, 
        including representation to certain international organizations 
        in which the United States participates pursuant to treaties 
        ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate or 
        specific Acts of Congress, general administration, and arms 
        control, nonproliferation and disarmament activities as 
        authorized, $759,125,000.
            (4) Security programs.--For necessary expenses for security 
        activities, $1,163,583,000, of which up to $1,141,338,000 is 
        for Worldwide Security Protection.
            (5) Fees and payments collected.--In addition to amounts 
        otherwise made available under this heading--
                    (A) as authorized by section 810 of the United 
                States Information and Educational Exchange Act, not to 
                exceed $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
                may be credited to this appropriation from fees or 
                other payments received from English teaching, library, 
                motion pictures, and publication programs and from fees 
                from educational advising and counseling and exchange 
                visitor programs; and
                    (B) not to exceed $15,000, which shall be derived 
                from reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of 
                Blair House facilities.
            (6) Transfer of funds, reprogramming, and other matters.--
                    (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
                Act, funds may be reprogrammed within and between 
                paragraphs (1) through (4) under this heading subject 
                to section 7015 of this Act.
                    (B) Of the amount made available under this 
                heading, not to exceed $10,000,000 may be transferred 
                to, and merged with, funds made available by this Act 
                under the heading ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and 
                Consular Service'', to be available only for emergency 
                evacuations and rewards, as authorized.
                    (C) Funds appropriated under this heading are 
                available for acquisition by exchange or purchase of 
                passenger motor vehicles as authorized by law and, 
                pursuant to section 1108(g) of title 31, United States 
                Code, for the field examination of programs and 
                activities in the United States funded from any account 
                contained in this title.
                    (D) Funds appropriated under this heading may be 
                made available for Conflict Stabilization Operations 
                and for related reconstruction and stabilization 
                assistance to prevent or respond to conflict or civil 
                strife in foreign countries or regions, or to enable 
                transition from such strife.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, as 
authorized, $12,600,000, to remain available until expended.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$87,069,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465), as it relates to post inspections:  
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$13,060,000 may remain available until September 30, 2018.

               educational and cultural exchange programs

    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, as 
authorized, $572,668,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not less than $236,000,000 shall be for the Fulbright Program and not 
less than $107,690,000 shall be for Citizen Exchange Program, including 
$4,000,000 for the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange:  Provided, That 
fees or other payments received from, or in connection with, English 
teaching, educational advising and counseling programs, and exchange 
visitor programs as authorized may be credited to this account, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That a portion of 
the Fulbright awards from the Eurasia and Central Asia regions shall be 
designated as Edmund S. Muskie Fellowships, following consultation with 
the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That Department of 
State-designated sponsors may not issue a Form DS-2019 (Certificate of 
Eligibility for Exchange Visitor (J-1) Status) to place student 
participants in seafood product preparation or packaging positions in 
the Summer Work Travel program in fiscal year 2017 unless prior to 
issuing such Form the sponsor provides to the Secretary of State a 
description of such program and verifies in writing to the Secretary 
that such program fully complies with part 62 of title 22 of the Code 
of Federal Regulations, notwithstanding subsection 62.32(h)(16) of such 
part, and with the requirements specified in the report accompanying 
this Act:  Provided further, That any substantive modifications from 
the prior fiscal year to programs funded by this Act under this heading 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

                        representation expenses

    For representation expenses as authorized, $8,030,000.

              protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services, as authorized, 
$30,344,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

            embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926 (22 U.S.C. 292 et seq.), preserving, maintaining, 
repairing, and planning for buildings that are owned or directly leased 
by the Department of State, renovating, in addition to funds otherwise 
available, the Harry S Truman Building, and carrying out the Diplomatic 
Security Construction Program as authorized, $759,161,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $25,000 may be used 
for domestic and overseas representation expenses as authorized:  
Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall 
be available for acquisition of furniture, furnishings, or generators 
for other departments and agencies of the United States Government:  
Provided further, That reimbursements received by the Department of 
State from other departments and agencies of the United States 
Government for improvement or construction costs of overseas facilities 
shall be credited to this account and shall remain available until 
expended.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized, $358,698,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations the proposed allocation of funds made 
available under this heading and the actual and anticipated proceeds of 
sales for all projects in fiscal year 2017.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For necessary expenses to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service, 
as authorized, $7,900,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Repatriation Loans Program 
Account'', subject to the same terms and conditions.

                   repatriation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $1,300,000, as authorized:  Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That such funds are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$2,433,545.

              payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act 
(Public Law 96-8), $31,963,000.

         International Center, Washington, District of Columbia

    Not to exceed $1,806,600 shall be derived from fees collected from 
other executive agencies for lease or use of facilities at the 
International Center in accordance with section 4 of the International 
Center Act (Public Law 90-553), and, in addition, as authorized by 
section 5 of such Act, $1,320,000, to be derived from the reserve 
authorized by such section, to be used for the purposes set out in that 
section and for development, maintenance, and security of additional 
properties for use as an International Center by foreign governments or 
international organizations.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized, $158,900,000.

                      International Organizations

              contributions to international organizations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet annual 
obligations of membership in international multilateral organizations, 
pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the 
Senate, conventions or specific Acts of Congress, $1,279,084,000:  
Provided, That the Secretary of State shall, at the time of the 
submission of the President's budget to Congress under section 1105(a) 
of title 31, United States Code, transmit to the Committees on 
Appropriations the most recent biennial budget prepared by the United 
Nations for the operations of the United Nations:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary of State shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations at least 15 days in advance (or in an emergency, as far 
in advance as is practicable) of any United Nations action to increase 
funding for any United Nations program without identifying an 
offsetting decrease elsewhere in the United Nations budget:  Provided 
further, That not later than May 1, 2017, and 30 days after the end of 
fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees 
on Appropriations any credits available to the United States, including 
from the United Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and provide updated 
fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year 2018 assessment costs including 
offsets from available credits and updated foreign currency exchange 
rates:  Provided further, That any such credits shall only be available 
for United States assessed contributions to the United Nations and the 
Committees on Appropriations shall be notified when such credits are 
applied to any assessed contribution, including any payment of 
arrearages:  Provided further, That any notification regarding funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this heading in this Act 
or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs submitted pursuant to section 
7015 of this Act, section 34 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706), or any operating plan submitted pursuant 
to section 7076 of this Act, shall include an estimate of all known 
credits currently available to the United States and provide updated 
assessment costs including offsets from available credits and updated 
foreign currency exchange rates:  Provided further, That any payment of 
arrearages under this heading shall be directed to activities that are 
mutually agreed upon by the United States and the respective 
international organization and shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be available for a United States contribution to an international 
organization for the United States share of interest costs made known 
to the United States Government by such organization for loans incurred 
on or after October 1, 1984, through external borrowings.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities directed to the maintenance or 
restoration of international peace and security, $781,930,000, of which 
15 percent shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That none of the funds made available by this Act shall be obligated or 
expended for any new or expanded United Nations peacekeeping mission 
unless, at least 15 days in advance of voting for such mission in the 
United Nations Security Council (or in an emergency as far in advance 
as is practicable), the Committees on Appropriations are notified of: 
(1) the estimated cost and duration of the mission, the objectives of 
the mission, the national interest that will be served, and the exit 
strategy; and (2) the sources of funds, including any reprogrammings or 
transfers, that will be used to pay the cost of the new or expanded 
mission, and the estimated cost in future fiscal years:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading may be 
made available for obligation unless the Secretary of State certifies 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations on a peacekeeping 
mission-by-mission basis that the United Nations is implementing 
effective policies and procedures to prevent United Nations employees, 
contractor personnel, and peacekeeping troops serving in such mission 
from trafficking in persons, exploiting victims of trafficking, or 
committing acts of sexual exploitation and abuse or other violations of 
human rights, and to bring to justice individuals who engage in such 
acts while participating in such mission, including prosecution in 
their home countries and making information about such prosecutions 
publicly available on the Web site of the United Nations:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of State shall work with the United Nations 
and foreign governments contributing peacekeeping troops to implement 
effective vetting procedures to ensure that such troops have not 
violated human rights:  Provided further, That funds shall be available 
for peacekeeping expenses unless the Secretary of State determines that 
United States manufacturers and suppliers are not being given 
opportunities to provide equipment, services, and material for United 
Nations peacekeeping activities equal to those being given to foreign 
manufacturers and suppliers:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this heading may be used 
for any United Nations peacekeeping mission that will involve United 
States Armed Forces under the command or operational control of a 
foreign national, unless the President's military advisors have 
submitted to the President a recommendation that such involvement is in 
the national interest of the United States and the President has 
submitted to Congress such a recommendation:  Provided further, That 
not later than May 1, 2017, and 30 days after the end of fiscal year 
2017, the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations any credits available to the United States, including 
those resulting from United Nations peacekeeping missions or the United 
Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and provide updated fiscal year 2017 and 
fiscal year 2018 assessment costs including offsets from available 
credits:  Provided further, That any such credits shall only be 
available for United States assessed contributions to the United 
Nations, and the Committees on Appropriations shall be notified when 
such credits are applied to any assessed contribution, including any 
payment of arrearages:  Provided further, That any notification 
regarding funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this 
heading in this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs submitted 
pursuant to section 7015 of this Act, section 34 of the State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706), or any 
operating plan submitted pursuant to section 7076 of this Act, shall 
include an estimate of all known credits currently available to the 
United States and provide updated assessment costs including offsets 
from available credits:  Provided further, That any payment of 
arrearages with funds appropriated by this Act shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall work with the 
United Nations and members of the United Nations Security Council to 
evaluate and prioritize peacekeeping missions, and to consider a draw 
down when mission goals have been substantially achieved:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this heading may be 
available for United States assessed contributions up to the amount 
specified in the Annex accompanying United Nations General Assembly 
document A/70/331/Add.1.

                       International Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or specific 
Acts of Congress, as follows:

 international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation expenses; as follows:

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $48,134,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $28,400,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized.

              american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by treaties between 
the United States and Canada or Great Britain, and the Border 
Environment Cooperation Commission as authorized by the North American 
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Public Law 103-182), 
$12,258,000:  Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading 
for the International Joint Commission, up to $500,000 may remain 
available until September 30, 2018, and $9,000 may be made available 
for representation expenses.

                  international fisheries commissions

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $37,502,000:  Provided, 
That the United States share of such expenses may be advanced to the 
respective commissions pursuant to section 3324 of title 31, United 
States Code.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 international broadcasting operations

    For necessary expenses to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors (BBG), as authorized, to carry out international 
communication activities, and to make and supervise grants for radio, 
Internet, and television broadcasting to the Middle East, $762,993,000: 
 Provided, That in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes, up to $31,201,000 of the amount appropriated under this 
heading may remain available until expended for satellite transmissions 
and Internet freedom programs, of which not less than $12,500,000 shall 
be for Internet freedom programs:  Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $35,000 may be 
used for representation expenses, of which $10,000 may be used for such 
expenses within the United States as authorized, and not to exceed 
$30,000 may be used for representation expenses of Radio Free Europe/
Radio Liberty:  Provided further, That the authority provided by 
section 504(c) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 
2003 (Public Law 107-228; 22 U.S.C. 6206 note) shall remain in effect 
through September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That the BBG shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations within 15 days of any 
determination by the BBG Board that any of its broadcast entities, 
including its grantee organizations, provides an open platform for 
international terrorists or those who support international terrorism, 
or is in violation of the principles and standards set forth in 
subsections (a) and (b) of section 303 of the United States 
International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6202) or the entity's 
journalistic code of ethics:  Provided further, That significant 
modifications to BBG broadcast hours previously justified to Congress, 
including changes to transmission platforms (shortwave, medium wave, 
satellite, Internet, and television), for all BBG language services 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That the BBG Board may 
delegate any of its authorities or duties, or those of the Director of 
the International Broadcasting Bureau, to a Chief Executive Officer, 
appointed by the BBG Board, to whom all Agency employees, except the 
BBG Board, shall report, and to whom such Board may require the head of 
an international broadcasting entity overseen by the BBG Board to 
report:  Provided further, That in addition to funds made available 
under this heading, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, up 
to $5,000,000 in receipts from advertising and revenue from business 
ventures, up to $500,000 in receipts from cooperating international 
organizations, and up to $1,000,000 in receipts from privatization 
efforts of the Voice of America and the International Broadcasting 
Bureau, shall remain available until expended for carrying out 
authorized purposes.

                   broadcasting capital improvements

    For the purchase, rent, construction, repair, preservation, and 
improvement of facilities for radio, television, and digital 
transmission and reception; the purchase, rent, and installation of 
necessary equipment for radio, television, and digital transmission and 
reception, including to Cuba, as authorized; and physical security 
worldwide, in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes, $9,700,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized.

                            RELATED PROGRAMS

                          The Asia Foundation

    For a grant to The Asia Foundation, as authorized by The Asia 
Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 4402), $17,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                    United States Institute of Peace

    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of Peace, as 
authorized by the United States Institute of Peace Act (22 U.S.C. 4601 
et seq.), $37,884,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, 
which shall not be used for construction activities.

         Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund

    For necessary expenses of the Center for Middle Eastern-Western 
Dialogue Trust Fund, as authorized by section 633 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2004 (22 U.S.C. 2078), the total amount of the 
interest and earnings accruing to such Fund on or before September 30, 
2017, to remain available until expended.

                 Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-5205), all interest and 
earnings accruing to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust 
Fund on or before September 30, 2017, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall 
be used to pay any salary or other compensation, or to enter into any 
contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by section 5376 of title 5, United States Code; or for 
purposes which are not in accordance with section 200 of title 2 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations, including the restrictions on compensation 
for personal services.

                    Israeli Arab Scholarship Program

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program, as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings 
accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 
30, 2017, to remain available until expended.

                            East-West Center

    To enable the Secretary of State to provide for carrying out the 
provisions of the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between 
East and West Act of 1960, by grant to the Center for Cultural and 
Technical Interchange Between East and West in the State of Hawaii, 
$16,700,000.

                    National Endowment for Democracy

    For grants made by the Department of State to the National 
Endowment for Democracy, as authorized by the National Endowment for 
Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4412), $170,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $117,500,000 shall be allocated in the traditional 
and customary manner, including for the core institutes, and 
$52,500,000 shall be for democracy programs.

                           OTHER COMMISSIONS

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of 
America's Heritage Abroad, $888,000, as authorized by chapter 3123 of 
title 54, United States Code:  Provided, That the Commission may 
procure temporary, intermittent, and other services notwithstanding 
paragraph (3) of section 312304(b) of such chapter:  Provided further, 
That such authority shall terminate on October 1, 2017:  Provided 
further, That the Commission shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations prior to exercising such authority.

      United States Commission on International Religious Freedom

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom, as authorized by title II of the 
International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6431 et seq.), 
$3,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, including not 
more than $4,000 for representation expenses.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, $2,579,000, 
including not more than $4,000 for representation expenses, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Congressional-Executive Commission on 
the People's Republic of China, as authorized by title III of the U.S.-
China Relations Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 6911 et seq.), $2,000,000, 
including not more than $3,000 for representation expenses, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

      United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States-China Economic and 
Security Review Commission, as authorized by section 1238 of the Floyd 
D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (22 
U.S.C. 7002), $3,500,000, including not more than $4,000 for 
representation expenses, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That the authorities, requirements, limitations, and 
conditions contained in the second through sixth provisos under this 
heading in the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117) 
shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2017 and shall apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading as if included in this Act.

                                TITLE II

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $1,221,925,000, of which up to 
$183,289,000 may remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading and under the 
heading ``Capital Investment Fund'' in this title may be made available 
to finance the construction (including architect and engineering 
services), purchase, or long-term lease of offices for use by the 
United States Agency for International Development, unless the USAID 
Administrator has identified such proposed use of funds in a report 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior to 
the obligation of funds for such purposes:  Provided further, That 
contracts or agreements entered into with funds appropriated under this 
heading may entail commitments for the expenditure of such funds 
through the following fiscal year:  Provided further, That the 
authority of sections 610 and 109 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
may be exercised by the Secretary of State to transfer funds 
appropriated to carry out chapter 1 of part I of such Act to 
``Operating Expenses'' in accordance with the provisions of those 
sections:  Provided further, That of the funds appropriated or made 
available under this heading, not to exceed $250,000 may be available 
for representation and entertainment expenses, of which not to exceed 
$5,000 may be available for entertainment expenses, and not to exceed 
$100,500 shall be for official residence expenses, for USAID during the 
current fiscal year.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses for overseas construction and related costs, 
and for the procurement and enhancement of information technology and 
related capital investments, pursuant to section 667 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $66,145,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That this amount is in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes:  Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be available subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $67,600,000, of which up to 
$10,140,000 may remain available until September 30, 2018, for the 
Office of Inspector General of the United States Agency for 
International Development.

                               TITLE III

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

    For necessary expenses to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other 
purposes, as follows:

                         global health programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapters 1 
and 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, for global 
health activities, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, $2,995,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, 
and which shall be apportioned directly to the United States Agency for 
International Development:  Provided, That this amount shall be made 
available for training, equipment, and technical assistance to build 
the capacity of public health institutions and organizations in 
developing countries, and for such activities as: (1) child survival 
and maternal health programs; (2) immunization and oral rehydration 
programs; (3) other health, nutrition, water and sanitation programs 
which directly address the needs of mothers and children, and related 
education programs; (4) assistance for children displaced or orphaned 
by causes other than AIDS; (5) programs for the prevention, treatment, 
control of, and research on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, polio, malaria, and 
other infectious diseases including neglected tropical diseases, and 
for assistance to communities severely affected by HIV/AIDS, including 
children infected or affected by AIDS; (6) disaster preparedness 
training for health crises; (7) programs to prepare for, and respond 
to, unanticipated and emerging global health threats; and (8) family 
planning/reproductive health:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this paragraph may be made available for a United 
States contribution to the GAVI Alliance:  Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available in this Act nor any unobligated balances 
from prior appropriations Acts may be made available to any 
organization or program which, as determined by the President, supports 
or participates in the management of a program of coercive abortion or 
involuntary sterilization:  Provided further, That any determination 
made under the previous proviso must be made not later than 6 months 
after the date of enactment of this Act, and must be accompanied by the 
evidence and criteria utilized to make the determination:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used to pay for the performance of abortion as a method of family 
planning or to motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions:  
Provided further, That nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to 
alter any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion under 
section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this Act may be used to 
lobby for or against abortion:  Provided further, That in order to 
reduce reliance on abortion in developing nations, funds shall be 
available only to voluntary family planning projects which offer, 
either directly or through referral to, or information about access to, 
a broad range of family planning methods and services, and that any 
such voluntary family planning project shall meet the following 
requirements: (1) service providers or referral agents in the project 
shall not implement or be subject to quotas, or other numerical 
targets, of total number of births, number of family planning 
acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of family planning (this 
provision shall not be construed to include the use of quantitative 
estimates or indicators for budgeting and planning purposes); (2) the 
project shall not include payment of incentives, bribes, gratuities, or 
financial reward to: (A) an individual in exchange for becoming a 
family planning acceptor; or (B) program personnel for achieving a 
numerical target or quota of total number of births, number of family 
planning acceptors, or acceptors of a particular method of family 
planning; (3) the project shall not deny any right or benefit, 
including the right of access to participate in any program of general 
welfare or the right of access to health care, as a consequence of any 
individual's decision not to accept family planning services; (4) the 
project shall provide family planning acceptors comprehensible 
information on the health benefits and risks of the method chosen, 
including those conditions that might render the use of the method 
inadvisable and those adverse side effects known to be consequent to 
the use of the method; and (5) the project shall ensure that 
experimental contraceptive drugs and devices and medical procedures are 
provided only in the context of a scientific study in which 
participants are advised of potential risks and benefits; and, not less 
than 60 days after the date on which the USAID Administrator determines 
that there has been a violation of the requirements contained in 
paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (5) of this proviso, or a pattern or 
practice of violations of the requirements contained in paragraph (4) 
of this proviso, the Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a report containing a description of such violation and 
the corrective action taken by the Agency:  Provided further, That in 
awarding grants for natural family planning under section 104 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no applicant shall be discriminated 
against because of such applicant's religious or conscientious 
commitment to offer only natural family planning; and, additionally, 
all such applicants shall comply with the requirements of the previous 
proviso:  Provided further, That for purposes of this or any other Act 
authorizing or appropriating funds for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs, the term ``motivate'', as it relates 
to family planning assistance, shall not be construed to prohibit the 
provision, consistent with local law, of information or counseling 
about all pregnancy options:  Provided further, That information 
provided about the use of condoms as part of projects or activities 
that are funded from amounts appropriated by this Act shall be 
medically accurate and shall include the public health benefits and 
failure rates of such use.
    In addition, for necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the prevention, treatment, and 
control of, and research on, HIV/AIDS, $5,670,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, which shall be apportioned directly 
to the Department of State:  Provided, That funds appropriated under 
this paragraph may be made available, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, except for the United States Leadership Against HIV/
AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-25), as 
amended, for a United States contribution to the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund), and shall be expended at 
the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and 
activities:  Provided further, That the amount of such contribution 
should be $1,350,000,000:  Provided further, That section 
202(d)(4)(A)(i) and (vi) of Public Law 108-25, as amended, shall be 
applied with respect to such funds made available for fiscal years 2015 
through 2017 by substituting ``2004'' for ``2009'':  Provided further, 
That up to 5 percent of the aggregate amount of funds made available to 
the Global Fund in fiscal year 2017 may be made available to USAID for 
technical assistance related to the activities of the Global Fund, 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under 
this paragraph, up to $17,000,000 may be made available, in addition to 
amounts otherwise available for such purposes, for administrative 
expenses of the Office of the United States Global AIDS Coordinator.

                         development assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103, 
105, 106, 214, and sections 251 through 255, and chapter 10 of part I 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $2,959,573,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                   international disaster assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 491 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for international disaster 
relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance, $474,763,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                         transition initiatives

    For necessary expenses for international disaster rehabilitation 
and reconstruction assistance, pursuant to section 491 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $30,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, to support transition to democracy and long-term development 
of countries in crisis:  Provided, That such support may include 
assistance to develop, strengthen, or preserve democratic institutions 
and processes, revitalize basic infrastructure, and foster the peaceful 
resolution of conflict:  Provided further, That the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days prior to 
beginning a new program of assistance:  Provided further, That if the 
Secretary of State determines that it is important to the national 
interest of the United States to provide transition assistance in 
excess of the amount appropriated under this heading, up to $15,000,000 
of the funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used for purposes 
of this heading and under the authorities applicable to funds 
appropriated under this heading:  Provided further, That funds made 
available pursuant to the previous proviso shall be made available 
subject to prior consultation with the Committees on Appropriations.

                          complex crises fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 to support programs and activities to prevent or 
respond to emerging or unforeseen foreign challenges and complex crises 
overseas, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That funds appropriated under this heading may be made available on 
such terms and conditions as are appropriate and necessary for the 
purposes of preventing or responding to such challenges and crises, 
except that no funds shall be made available for lethal assistance or 
to respond to natural disasters:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, except sections 7007, 7008, and 7018 of 
this Act and section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961:  
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be 
used for administrative expenses, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes, except that such expenses may not exceed 5 
percent of the funds appropriated under this heading:  Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, except that such notifications shall be transmitted at 
least 5 days prior to the obligation of funds.

                      development credit authority

    For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees provided by the 
United States Agency for International Development, as authorized by 
sections 256 and 635 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, up to 
$60,000,000 may be derived by transfer from funds appropriated by this 
Act to carry out part I of such Act and under the heading ``Assistance 
for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'':  Provided, That funds provided 
under this paragraph and funds provided as a gift that are used for 
purposes of this paragraph pursuant to section 635(d) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall be made available only for micro- and 
small enterprise programs, urban programs, and other programs which 
further the purposes of part I of such Act:  Provided further, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such direct and guaranteed 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as amended:  Provided further, That funds made available 
by this paragraph may be used for the cost of modifying any such 
guaranteed loans under this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for 
the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs, and 
funds used for such costs shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That 
the provisions of section 107A(d) (relating to general provisions 
applicable to the Development Credit Authority) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as contained in section 306 of H.R. 1486 as 
reported by the House Committee on International Relations on May 9, 
1997, shall be applicable to direct loans and loan guarantees provided 
under this heading, except that the principal amount of loans made or 
guaranteed under this heading with respect to any single country shall 
not exceed $300,000,000:  Provided further, That these funds are 
available to subsidize total loan principal, any portion of which is to 
be guaranteed, of up to $2,000,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out credit 
programs administered by USAID, $10,000,000, which may be transferred 
to, and merged with, funds made available under the heading ``Operating 
Expenses'' in title II of this Act:  Provided, That funds made 
available under this heading shall remain available until September 30, 
2019.

                         economic support fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $1,576,361,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018.

                             democracy fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for the promotion of democracy globally, 
$150,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

            assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, the FREEDOM Support Act (Public Law 102-511), 
and the Support for Eastern European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 
(Public Law 101-179), $291,420,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2018, which shall be available, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, except section 7070 of this Act, for assistance and related 
programs for countries identified in section 3 of Public Law 102-511 
and section 3(c) of Public Law 101-179, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes:  Provided, That funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Global Health Programs'' that are made 
available for assistance for such countries shall be administered in 
accordance with the responsibilities of the coordinator designated 
pursuant to section 102 of Public Law 102-511 and section 601 of Public 
Law 101-179:  Provided further, That the Secretary of State, following 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, may assign 
responsibilities under section 102(a) of Public Law 102-511 to another 
senior Department of State official with regard to the Central Asian 
countries identified in section 3 of such Act:  Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered to be 
economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained 
in that Act for the use of economic assistance.

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For necessary expenses not otherwise provided for, to enable the 
Secretary of State to carry out the provisions of section 2(a) and (b) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, and other 
activities to meet refugee and migration needs; salaries and expenses 
of personnel and dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 
1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of title 
5, United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, $931,886,000, to remain available until expended, of which not 
less than $35,000,000 shall be made available to respond to small-scale 
emergency humanitarian requirements, and $7,500,000 shall be made 
available for refugees resettling in Israel.

     united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 2601(c)), $10,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Independent Agencies

                              peace corps

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), including the purchase of not to 
exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for 
use outside of the United States, $410,000,000, of which $5,500,000 is 
for the Office of Inspector General, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided, That the Director of the Peace Corps may 
transfer to the Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account, as authorized by 
section 16 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2515), an amount not to 
exceed $5,000,000:  Provided further, That funds transferred pursuant 
to the previous proviso may not be derived from amounts made available 
for Peace Corps overseas operations:  Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $104,000 may be 
available for representation expenses, of which not to exceed $4,000 
may be made available for entertainment expenses:  Provided further, 
That any decision to open, close, significantly reduce, or suspend a 
domestic or overseas office or country program shall be subject to 
prior consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, 
the Committees on Appropriations, except that prior consultation and 
regular notification procedures may be waived when there is a 
substantial security risk to volunteers or other Peace Corps personnel, 
pursuant to section 7015(e) of this Act:  Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be used to pay for 
abortions:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the previous 
proviso, section 614 of division E of Public Law 113-76 shall apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading.

                    millennium challenge corporation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) (MCA), 
$905,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading, up to $105,000,000 may be 
available for administrative expenses of the Millennium Challenge 
Corporation (MCC):  Provided further, That up to 5 percent of the funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available to carry out the 
purposes of section 616 of the MCA for fiscal year 2017:  Provided 
further, That section 605(e) of the MCA shall apply to funds 
appropriated under this heading:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available for a Millennium 
Challenge Compact entered into pursuant to section 609 of the MCA only 
if such Compact obligates, or contains a commitment to obligate subject 
to the availability of funds and the mutual agreement of the parties to 
the Compact to proceed, the entire amount of the United States 
Government funding anticipated for the duration of the Compact:  
Provided further, That the MCC Chief Executive Officer shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations not later than 15 days prior to commencing 
negotiations for any country compact or threshold country program; 
signing any such compact or threshold program; or terminating or 
suspending any such compact or threshold program:  Provided further, 
That funds appropriated under this heading by this Act and prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs that are available to implement section 609(g) of 
the MCA shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That no country should 
be eligible for a threshold program after such country has completed a 
country compact:  Provided further, That any funds that are deobligated 
from a Millennium Challenge Compact shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
re-obligation:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
606(a)(2) of the MCA, a country shall be a candidate country for 
purposes of eligibility for assistance for the fiscal year if the 
country has a per capita income equal to or below the World Bank's 
lower middle income country threshold for the fiscal year and is among 
the 75 lowest per capita income countries as identified by the World 
Bank; and the country meets the requirements of section 606(a)(1)(B) of 
the MCA:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 606(b)(1) of 
the MCA, in addition to countries described in the preceding proviso, a 
country shall be a candidate country for purposes of eligibility for 
assistance for the fiscal year if the country has a per capita income 
equal to or below the World Bank's lower middle income country 
threshold for the fiscal year and is not among the 75 lowest per capita 
income countries as identified by the World Bank; and the country meets 
the requirements of section 606(a)(1)(B) of the MCA:  Provided further, 
That any MCC candidate country under section 606 of the MCA with a per 
capita income that changes in the fiscal year such that the country 
would be reclassified from a low income country to a lower middle 
income country or from a lower middle income country to a low income 
country shall retain its candidacy status in its former income 
classification for the fiscal year and the 2 subsequent fiscal years:  
Provided further, That publication in the Federal Register of a notice 
of availability of a copy of a Compact on the MCC Web site shall be 
deemed, in this fiscal year and each fiscal year hereafter, to satisfy 
the requirements of section 610(b)(2) of the MCA for such Compact:  
Provided further, That none of the funds made available by this Act or 
prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs shall be available for a threshold 
program in a country that is not currently a candidate country:  
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
not to exceed $100,000 may be available for representation and 
entertainment expenses, of which not to exceed $5,000 may be available 
for entertainment expenses.

                       inter-american foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the functions of the Inter-
American Foundation in accordance with the provisions of section 401 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, $22,500,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not to exceed $2,000 may be available for 
representation expenses.

              united states african development foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out title V of the International 
Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533), 
$30,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, of which not 
to exceed $2,000 may be available for representation expenses:  
Provided, That funds made available to grantees may be invested pending 
expenditure for project purposes when authorized by the Board of 
Directors of the United States African Development Foundation (USADF):  
Provided further, That interest earned shall be used only for the 
purposes for which the grant was made:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) of the African Development Foundation 
Act, in exceptional circumstances the Board of Directors of the USADF 
may waive the $250,000 limitation contained in that section with 
respect to a project and a project may exceed the limitation by up to 
10 percent if the increase is due solely to foreign currency 
fluctuation:  Provided further, That the USADF shall submit a report to 
the Committees on Appropriations after each time such waiver authority 
is exercised:  Provided further, That the USADF may make rent or lease 
payments in advance from appropriations available for such purpose for 
offices, buildings, grounds, and quarters in Africa as may be necessary 
to carry out its functions:  Provided further, That the USADF may 
maintain bank accounts outside the United States Treasury and retain 
any interest earned on such accounts, in furtherance of the purposes of 
the African Foundation Development Act:  Provided further, That the 
USADF may not withdraw any appropriation from the Treasury prior to the 
need of spending such funds for program purposes.

                       Department of the Treasury

               international affairs technical assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 129 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $30,103,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2019, which shall be available notwithstanding any 
other provision of law.

                                TITLE IV

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $780,819,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided, That the provision of assistance by any 
other department or agency of the United States Government which is 
comparable to assistance that may be made available under this heading, 
but which is provided under any other provision of law, shall be 
provided only with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and 
administered in accordance with the provisions of sections 481(b) and 
622(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961:  Provided further, That 
the Department of State may use the authority of section 608 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, without regard to its restrictions, to 
receive excess property from an agency of the United States Government 
for the purpose of providing such property to a foreign country or 
international organization under chapter 8 of part I of such Act, 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That section 482(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to funds appropriated under this 
heading, except that any funds made available notwithstanding such 
section shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available to support 
training and technical assistance for foreign law enforcement, 
corrections, and other judicial authorities, utilizing regional 
partners:  Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available, on a 
competitive basis, for rule of law programs for transitional and post-
conflict states, and for activities to coordinate rule of law programs 
among foreign governments, international and nongovernmental 
organizations, and other United States Government agencies:  Provided 
further, That funds made available under this heading that are 
transferred to another department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government pursuant to section 632(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess of $5,000,000, and any 
agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) of such Act, shall be subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, 
demining and related programs and activities, $490,196,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018, to carry out the provisions of 
chapter 8 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for anti-
terrorism assistance, chapter 9 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, section 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act, section 23 of the 
Arms Export Control Act, or the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
demining activities, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, the 
destruction of small arms, and related activities, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, including activities implemented through 
nongovernmental and international organizations, and section 301 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for a United States contribution to the 
Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Preparatory Commission, and for a 
voluntary contribution to the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA):  Provided, That the Secretary of State shall inform the 
appropriate congressional committees of information regarding any 
separate arrangements relating to the ``Road-map for the Clarification 
of Past and Present Outstanding Issues Regarding Iran's Nuclear 
Program'' between the IAEA and the Islamic Republic of Iran, in 
classified form if necessary, if such information becomes known to the 
Department of State:  Provided further, That for the clearance of 
unexploded ordnance, the Secretary of State should prioritize those 
areas where such ordnance was caused by the United States:  Provided 
further, That funds made available under this heading for the 
Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund shall be made available 
notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations, to promote bilateral and multilateral 
activities relating to nonproliferation, disarmament, and weapons 
destruction, and shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That such funds may also be used for such countries other than 
the Independent States of the former Soviet Union and international 
organizations when it is in the national security interest of the 
United States to do so:  Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading may be made available for the IAEA unless the 
Secretary of State determines that Israel is being denied its right to 
participate in the activities of that Agency:  Provided further, That 
funds made available for conventional weapons destruction programs, 
including demining and related activities, in addition to funds 
otherwise available for such purposes, may be used for administrative 
expenses related to the operation and management of such programs and 
activities, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $94,500,000:  Provided, That 
funds appropriated under this heading may be used, notwithstanding 
section 660 of such Act, to provide assistance to enhance the capacity 
of foreign civilian security forces, including gendarmes, to 
participate in peacekeeping operations:  Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $44,500,000 shall 
be made available for a United States contribution to the Multinational 
Force and Observers mission in the Sinai:  Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated except 
as provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

             international military education and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $109,495,000, of which up to 
$4,000,000 may remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That the civilian personnel for whom military education and training 
may be provided under this heading may include civilians who are not 
members of a government whose participation would contribute to 
improved civil-military relations, civilian control of the military, or 
respect for human rights:  Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $55,000 may be available 
for entertainment expenses.

                   foreign military financing program

    For necessary expenses for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$4,988,365,000:  Provided, That to expedite the provision of assistance 
to foreign countries and international organizations, the Secretary of 
State, following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations and 
subject to the regular notification procedures of such Committees, may 
use the funds appropriated under this heading to procure defense 
articles and services to enhance the capacity of foreign security 
forces:  Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $3,400,000,000 shall be available for grants 
only for Israel, which shall be disbursed within 30 days of enactment 
of this Act:  Provided further, That to the extent that the Government 
of Israel requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants made 
available for Israel under this heading shall, as agreed by the United 
States and Israel, be available for advanced weapons systems, of which 
not less than $815,300,000 shall be available for the procurement in 
Israel of defense articles and defense services, including research and 
development:  Provided further, That none of the funds made available 
under this heading shall be made available to support or continue any 
program initially funded under the authority of section 1206 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 
109-163; 119 Stat. 3456), section 2282 of title 10, United States Code, 
or any successor authorities, unless the Secretary of State, in 
coordination with the Secretary of Defense, has justified such program 
to the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this heading shall be 
nonrepayable notwithstanding any requirement in section 23 of the Arms 
Export Control Act:  Provided further, That funds made available under 
this heading shall be obligated upon apportionment in accordance with 
paragraph (5)(C) of section 1501(a) of title 31, United States Code.
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurement has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurement may be financed with such funds:  
Provided, That all country and funding level increases in allocations 
shall be submitted through the regular notification procedures of 
section 7015 of this Act:  Provided further, That funds made available 
under this heading may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, for demining, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related 
activities, and may include activities implemented through 
nongovernmental and international organizations:  Provided further, 
That only those countries for which assistance was justified for the 
``Foreign Military Sales Financing Program'' in the fiscal year 1989 
congressional presentation for security assistance programs may utilize 
funds made available under this heading for procurement of defense 
articles, defense services, or design and construction services that 
are not sold by the United States Government under the Arms Export 
Control Act:  Provided further, That funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely 
payment for defense articles and services:  Provided further, That not 
more than $70,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may 
be obligated for necessary expenses, including the purchase of 
passenger motor vehicles for replacement only for use outside of the 
United States, for the general costs of administering military 
assistance and sales, except that this limitation may be exceeded only 
through the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That of the funds made available 
under this heading for general costs of administering military 
assistance and sales, not to exceed $4,000 may be available for 
entertainment expenses and not to exceed $130,000 may be available for 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That not more than 
$920,200,000 of funds realized pursuant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the 
Arms Export Control Act may be obligated for expenses incurred by the 
Department of Defense during fiscal year 2017 pursuant to section 43(b) 
of the Arms Export Control Act, except that this limitation may be 
exceeded only through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                                TITLE V

                        MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                international organizations and programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 301 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and of section 2 of the United 
Nations Environment Program Participation Act of 1973, $347,950,000:  
Provided, That section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
shall not apply to contributions to the United Nations Democracy Fund.

                  International Financial Institutions

                      global environment facility

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development as trustee for the Global Environment Facility by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $146,563,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                 contribution to the green climate fund

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development as trustee for the Green Climate Fund by the Secretary of 
the Treasury, $263,000,000, to remain available until expended.

       contribution to the international development association

    For payment to the International Development Association by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $1,113,130,000, to remain available until 
expended.

     contribution to the international bank for reconstruction and 
                              development

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury for the United States 
share of the paid-in portion of the increases in capital stock, 
$5,963,421, to remain available until expended.

          contribution to the inter-american development bank

    For payment to the Inter-American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of 
the increase in capital stock, $21,939,727, to remain available until 
expended.

               contribution to the asian development fund

    For payment to the Asian Development Bank's Asian Development Fund 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $99,233,000, to remain available 
until expended.

              contribution to the african development bank

    For payment to the African Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of the 
increase in capital stock, $32,418,000, to remain available until 
expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the African Development Bank may 
subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $507,860,808.

              contribution to the african development fund

    For payment to the African Development Fund by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, $214,332,000, to remain available until expended.

  contribution to the international fund for agricultural development

    For payment to the International Fund for Agricultural Development 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $30,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

              global agriculture and food security program

    For payment to the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program by 
the Secretary of the Treasury, $23,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

          contribution to the north american development bank

    For payment to the North American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of 
the increase in capital stock, $45,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The Secretary of the Treasury may subscribe without fiscal year 
limitation to the callable capital portion of the United States share 
of such capital stock in an amount not to exceed $255,000,000.

                                TITLE VI

                    EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                Export-Import Bank of the United States

                           inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $5,700,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

                            program account

    The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized to make 
such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to such corporation, and in accordance with law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out the program for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation:  Provided, That none of the 
funds available during the current fiscal year may be used to make 
expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of nuclear 
equipment, fuel, or technology to any country, other than a nuclear-
weapon state as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act, that has detonated a nuclear 
explosive after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                        administrative expenses

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs, including hire of passenger motor vehicles 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, and not to exceed $30,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses for members of the Board of Directors, not to 
exceed $110,000,000:  Provided, That the Export-Import Bank (the Bank) 
may accept, and use, payment or services provided by transaction 
participants for legal, financial, or technical services in connection 
with any transaction for which an application for a loan, guarantee or 
insurance commitment has been made:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding subsection (b) of section 117 of the Export Enhancement 
Act of 1992, subsection (a) thereof shall remain in effect through 
September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That the Bank shall charge fees 
for necessary expenses (including special services performed on a 
contract or fee basis, but not including other personal services) in 
connection with the collection of moneys owed the Bank, repossession or 
sale of pledged collateral or other assets acquired by the Bank in 
satisfaction of moneys owed the Bank, or the investigation or appraisal 
of any property, or the evaluation of the legal, financial, or 
technical aspects of any transaction for which an application for a 
loan, guarantee or insurance commitment has been made, or systems 
infrastructure directly supporting transactions:  Provided further, 
That in addition to other funds appropriated for administrative 
expenses, such fees shall be credited to this account for such 
purposes, to remain available until expended.

                           receipts collected

    Receipts collected pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, 
as amended, and the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, as amended, in 
an amount not to exceed the amount appropriated herein, shall be 
credited as offsetting collections to this account:  Provided, That the 
sums herein appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced on a 
dollar-for-dollar basis by such offsetting collections so as to result 
in a final fiscal year appropriation from the General Fund estimated at 
$0:  Provided further, That amounts collected in fiscal year 2017 in 
excess of obligations, up to $10,000,000 shall become available on 
September 1, 2017, and shall remain available until September 30, 2020.

                Overseas Private Investment Corporation

                           noncredit account

    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to make, 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by section 9104 
of title 31, United States Code, such expenditures and commitments 
within the limits of funds available to it and in accordance with law 
as may be necessary:  Provided, That the amount available for 
administrative expenses to carry out the credit and insurance programs 
(including an amount for official reception and representation expenses 
which shall not exceed $35,000) shall not exceed $77,000,000:  Provided 
further, That project-specific transaction costs, including direct and 
indirect costs incurred in claims settlements, and other direct costs 
associated with services provided to specific investors or potential 
investors pursuant to section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, shall not be considered administrative expenses for the purposes 
of this heading.

                            program account

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, $20,000,000, as 
authorized by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, to be 
derived by transfer from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
Noncredit Account:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That such sums 
shall be available for direct loan obligations and loan guaranty 
commitments incurred or made during fiscal years 2017, 2018, and 2019:  
Provided further, That funds so obligated in fiscal year 2017 remain 
available for disbursement through 2025; funds obligated in fiscal year 
2018 remain available for disbursement through 2026; and funds 
obligated in fiscal year 2019 remain available for disbursement through 
2027:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to 
undertake any program authorized by title IV of chapter 2 of part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 in Iraq:  Provided further, That 
funds made available pursuant to the authority of the previous proviso 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    In addition, such sums as may be necessary for administrative 
expenses to carry out the credit program may be derived from amounts 
available for administrative expenses to carry out the credit and 
insurance programs in the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
Noncredit Account and merged with said account.

                      trade and development agency

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $80,700,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not more than $5,000 may be available for 
representation and entertainment expenses.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      allowances and differentials

    Sec. 7001.  Funds appropriated under title I of this Act shall be 
available, except as otherwise provided, for allowances and 
differentials as authorized by subchapter 59 of title 5, United States 
Code; for services as authorized by section 3109 of such title and for 
hire of passenger transportation pursuant to section 1343(b) of title 
31, United States Code.

                      unobligated balances report

    Sec. 7002.  Any department or agency of the United States 
Government to which funds are appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations a 
quarterly accounting of cumulative unobligated balances and obligated, 
but unexpended, balances by program, project, and activity, and 
Treasury Account Fund Symbol of all funds received by such department 
or agency in fiscal year 2017 or any previous fiscal year, 
disaggregated by fiscal year:  Provided, That the report required by 
this section should specify by account the amount of funds obligated 
pursuant to bilateral agreements which have not been further sub-
obligated.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 7003.  The expenditure of any appropriation under title I of 
this Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of 
public record and available for public inspection, except where 
otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing Executive 
Order issued pursuant to existing law.

                         diplomatic facilities

    Sec. 7004. (a) Capital Security Cost Sharing.--Of funds provided 
under title I of this Act, except as provided in subsection (b), a 
project to construct a United States diplomatic facility may not 
include office space or other accommodations for an employee of a 
Federal department or agency if the Secretary of State determines and 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations that such department or 
agency has not provided to the Department of State the full amount of 
funding required by subsection (e) of section 604 of the Secure Embassy 
Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (as enacted into law by 
section 1000(a)(7) of Public Law 106-113 and contained in appendix G of 
that Act; 113 Stat. 1501A-453), as amended by section 629 of the 
Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2005:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
State shall promptly inform such Committees of each instance in which a 
Federal department or agency is delinquent in providing the full amount 
of funding required by subsection (e) of section 604 of such Act during 
a fiscal year.
    (b) Exception.--Notwithstanding the prohibition in subsection (a), 
a project to construct a United States diplomatic facility may include 
office space or other accommodations for members of the United States 
Marine Corps.
    (c) New Diplomatic Facilities.--For the purposes of calculating the 
fiscal year 2017 costs of providing new United States diplomatic 
facilities in accordance with section 604(e) of the Secure Embassy 
Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C. 4865 note), 
the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, shall determine the annual program level and 
agency shares in a manner that is proportional to the contribution of 
the Department of State for this purpose.
    (d) Consultation and Notification Requirements.--Funds appropriated 
by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs, which may be made 
available for the acquisition of property or award of construction 
contracts for overseas United States diplomatic facilities during 
fiscal year 2017, shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the 
regular notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided, That notifications pursuant to this subsection shall include 
the information enumerated under the heading ``Embassy Security, 
Construction, and Maintenance'' in the report accompanying this Act:  
Provided further, That any such notification for a new diplomatic 
facility justified to the Committees on Appropriations in Appendix 1 of 
the Congressional Budget Justification, Department of State, Diplomatic 
Engagement, Fiscal Year 2017, or not previously justified to such 
Committees, shall also include confirmation that the Department of 
State has completed the requisite value engineering studies required 
pursuant to OMB Circular A-131, Value Engineering December 31, 2013 and 
the Bureau of Overseas Building Operations Policy and Procedure 
Directive, P&PD, Cost 02: Value Engineering.
    (e) Interim and Temporary Facilities Abroad.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' may be made 
        available to address security vulnerabilities at interim and 
        temporary United States diplomatic facilities abroad, including 
        physical security upgrades and local guard staffing, except 
        that the amount of funds made available for such purposes from 
        this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        shall be a minimum of $25,000,000:  Provided, That the uses of 
        such funds should be the responsibility of the Assistant 
        Secretary for Diplomatic Security and Foreign Missions, 
        Department of State, in consultation with the Director of the 
        Bureau of Overseas Buildings Operations, Department of State:  
        Provided further, That such funds shall be subject to prior 
        consultation with the Committees on Appropriations.
            (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
        opening, closure, or any significant modification to an interim 
        or temporary United States diplomatic facility shall be subject 
        to prior consultation with the appropriate congressional 
        committees and the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations, except that such consultation and 
        notification may be waived if there is a security risk to 
        personnel.
    (f) Transfer of Funds.--Funds appropriated under the heading 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', including for Worldwide Security 
Protection, and under the heading ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
Maintenance'' in titles I and VIII of this Act may be transferred to, 
and merged with, funds appropriated by such titles under such headings 
if the Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations that to do so is necessary to implement the 
recommendations of the Benghazi Accountability Review Board, or to 
prevent or respond to security situations and requirements, following 
consultation with, and subject to the regular notification procedures 
of, such Committees:  Provided, That such transfer authority is in 
addition to any transfer authority otherwise available under any other 
provision of law.
    (g) Soft Targets.--Funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs under the heading ``Embassy Security, 
Construction, and Maintenance'' and made available for salary and 
benefit costs for employees of the Bureau of Overseas Building 
Operations, Department of State, that remain unobligated after the end 
of the fiscal year in which such funds were appropriated shall be 
transferred to the Worldwide Security Upgrades-Compound Security 
Program under such heading for physical security upgrades of soft 
targets:  Provided, That such funds shall be in addition to funds 
otherwise available for physical security upgrades of soft targets for 
fiscal years 2017 and 2018:  Provided further, That amounts made 
available pursuant to this paragraph from prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs that were previously designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of such Act.

                           personnel actions

    Sec. 7005.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded 
under title I of this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in 
response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed 
within the total budgetary resources available under title I to such 
department or agency:  Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act:  Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this 
section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 7015 
of this Act.

                          local guard programs

    Sec. 7006. (a) Contracts.--In evaluating proposals for local guard 
contracts, the Secretary of State shall award contracts in accordance 
with section 136 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
Years 1990 and 1991 (22 U.S.C. 4864), except that the Secretary may 
grant authorization to award such contracts on the basis of best value 
as determined by a cost-technical tradeoff analysis (as described in 
Federal Acquisition Regulation part 15.101), notwithstanding subsection 
(c)(3) of such section:  Provided, That the authority in this section 
shall apply to any options for renewal that may be exercised under such 
contracts that are awarded during the current fiscal year.
    (b) Strengthening Oversight.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs under the heading ``Diplomatic 
and Consular Programs'' for Worldwide Security Protection, not less 
than $8,500,000 shall be made available to strengthen oversight of the 
local guard force at a critical post abroad through the use of United 
States Government employees or contractors, who are United States 
citizens:  Provided, That such funds are in addition to funds available 
by the Act for such purposes:  Provided further, That the annual 
operating costs associated with sustaining such oversight in subsequent 
fiscal years shall be borne through the International Cooperative 
Administrative Support Services program:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of State shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations 
prior to the obligation of funds made available pursuant to this 
subsection:  Provided further, That amounts made available pursuant to 
this paragraph from prior Acts making appropriations for the Department 
of State, foreign operations, and related programs that were previously 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of such Act.

        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries

    Sec. 7007.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance or reparations 
for the governments of Cuba, North Korea, Iran, or Syria:  Provided, 
That for purposes of this section, the prohibition on obligations or 
expenditures shall include direct loans, credits, insurance, and 
guarantees of the Export-Import Bank or its agents.

                              coups d'etat

    Sec. 7008.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance to the 
government of any country whose duly elected head of government is 
deposed by military coup d'etat or decree or, after the date of 
enactment of this Act, a coup d'etat or decree in which the military 
plays a decisive role:  Provided, That assistance may be resumed to 
such government if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
appropriate congressional committees that subsequent to the termination 
of assistance a democratically elected government has taken office:  
Provided further, That the provisions of this section shall not apply 
to assistance to promote democratic elections or public participation 
in democratic processes:  Provided further, That funds made available 
pursuant to the previous provisos shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                           transfer of funds

    Sec. 7009. (a) Department of State and Broadcasting Board of 
Governors.--
            (1) Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
        available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
        State under title I of this Act may be transferred between, and 
        merged with, such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
        except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased 
        by more than 10 percent by any such transfers, and no such 
        transfer may be made to increase the appropriation under the 
        heading ``Representation Expenses''.
            (2) Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
        available for the current fiscal year for the Broadcasting 
        Board of Governors under title I of this Act may be transferred 
        between, and merged with, such appropriations, but no such 
        appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall 
        be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers.
            (3) Any transfer pursuant to this subsection shall be 
        treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 7015 of this 
        Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
        except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
        section.
    (b) Title VI Transfer of Funds.--Not to exceed 5 percent of any 
appropriation other than for administrative expenses made available for 
fiscal year 2017, for programs under title VI of this Act may be 
transferred between such appropriations for use for any of the 
purposes, programs, and activities for which the funds in such 
receiving account may be used, but no such appropriation, except as 
otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 25 
percent by any such transfer:  Provided, That the exercise of such 
authority shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Limitation on Transfers of Funds Between Agencies.--
            (1) None of the funds made available under titles II 
        through V of this Act may be transferred to any department, 
        agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government, 
        except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer authority 
        provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
            (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in addition to transfers 
        made by, or authorized elsewhere in, this Act, funds 
        appropriated by this Act to carry out the purposes of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be allocated or transferred 
        to agencies of the United States Government pursuant to the 
        provisions of sections 109, 610, and 632 of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961.
            (3) Any agreement entered into by the United States Agency 
        for International Development or the Department of State with 
        any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
        Government pursuant to section 632(b) of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 valued in excess of $1,000,000 and any agreement 
        made pursuant to section 632(a) of such Act, with funds 
        appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making appropriations 
        for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
        programs under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', 
        ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', and 
        ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' shall be 
        subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations:  Provided, That the requirement 
        in the previous sentence shall not apply to agreements entered 
        into between USAID and the Department of State.
    (d) Transfer of Funds.--None of the funds made available under 
titles II through V of this Act may be obligated under an 
appropriations account to which such funds were not appropriated, 
except for transfers specifically provided for in this Act, unless the 
President, not less than 5 days prior to the exercise of any authority 
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Audit of Inter-agency Transfers of Funds.--Any agreement for 
the transfer or allocation of funds appropriated by this Act or prior 
Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations and related programs, entered into between the Department of 
State or USAID and another agency of the United States Government under 
the authority of section 632(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
or any comparable provision of law, shall expressly provide that the 
Inspector General (IG) for the agency receiving the transfer or 
allocation of such funds, or other entity with audit responsibility if 
the receiving agency does not have an IG, shall perform periodic 
program and financial audits of the use of such funds and report to the 
Department of State or USAID, as appropriate, upon completion of such 
audits:  Provided, That such audits shall be transmitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations by the Department of State or USAID, as 
appropriate:  Provided further, That funds transferred under such 
authority may be made available for the cost of such audits.

                   prohibition on first-class travel

    Sec. 7010.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for first-class travel by employees of departments and agencies 
funded by this Act in contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-
10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.

                         availability of funds

    Sec. 7011.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall remain available for obligation after the expiration of the 
current fiscal year unless expressly so provided by this Act:  
Provided, That funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1 and 8 
of part I, section 661, chapters 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9 of part II of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, section 23 of the Arms Export Control 
Act, and funds provided under the headings ``Development Credit 
Authority'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' 
shall remain available for an additional 4 years from the date on which 
the availability of such funds would otherwise have expired, if such 
funds are initially obligated before the expiration of their respective 
periods of availability contained in this Act:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any funds made 
available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part 
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which are allocated or 
obligated for cash disbursements in order to address balance of 
payments or economic policy reform objectives, shall remain available 
for an additional 4 years from the date on which the availability of 
such funds would otherwise have expired, if such funds are initially 
allocated or obligated before the expiration of their respective 
periods of availability contained in this Act:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary of State shall provide a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations not later than October 30, 2017, detailing by account 
and source year, the use of this authority during the previous fiscal 
year.

            limitation on assistance to countries in default

    Sec. 7012.  No part of any appropriation provided under titles III 
through VI in this Act shall be used to furnish assistance to the 
government of any country which is in default during a period in excess 
of 1 calendar year in payment to the United States of principal or 
interest on any loan made to the government of such country by the 
United States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated 
under this Act unless the President determines, following consultations 
with the Committees on Appropriations, that assistance for such country 
is in the national interest of the United States.

          prohibition on taxation of united states assistance

    Sec. 7013. (a) Prohibition on Taxation.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be made 
available to provide assistance for a foreign country under a new 
bilateral agreement governing the terms and conditions under which such 
assistance is to be provided unless such agreement includes a provision 
stating that assistance provided by the United States shall be exempt 
from taxation, or reimbursed, by the foreign government, and the 
Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States Agency 
for International Development shall expeditiously seek to negotiate 
amendments to existing bilateral agreements, as necessary, to conform 
with this requirement.
    (b) Notification and Reimbursement of Foreign Taxes.--An amount 
equivalent to 200 percent of the total taxes assessed during fiscal 
year 2017 on funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs by a foreign government or entity against United 
States assistance programs, either directly or through grantees, 
contractors, and subcontractors shall be withheld from obligation from 
funds appropriated for assistance for fiscal year 2018 and for prior 
fiscal years and allocated for the central government of such country 
or for the West Bank and Gaza program if, not later than September 30, 
2018, such taxes have not been reimbursed:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on Appropriations by 
such date on the foreign governments and entities that have not 
reimbursed such taxes and the amount of funds withheld.
    (c) De Minimis Exception.--Foreign taxes of a de minimis nature 
shall not be subject to the provisions of subsection (b).
    (d) Reprogramming of Funds.--Funds withheld from obligation for 
each foreign government or entity pursuant to subsection (b) shall be 
reprogrammed for assistance for countries which do not assess taxes on 
United States assistance or which have an effective arrangement that is 
providing substantial reimbursement of such taxes, and that can 
reasonably accommodate such assistance in a programmatically 
responsible manner.
    (e) Determinations.--
            (1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any 
        foreign government or entity that assesses such taxes if the 
        Secretary of State reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
        that--
                    (A) such foreign government or entity has an 
                effective arrangement that is providing substantial 
                reimbursement of such taxes; or
                    (B) the foreign policy interests of the United 
                States outweigh the purpose of this section to ensure 
                that United States assistance is not subject to 
                taxation.
            (2) The Secretary of State shall consult with the 
        Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior to 
        exercising the authority of this subsection with regard to any 
        country or entity.
    (f) Implementation.--The Secretary of State shall issue rules, 
regulations, or policy guidance, as appropriate, to implement the 
prohibition against the taxation of assistance contained in this 
section, and provide such rules, regulations, or policy guidance to the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) the term ``bilateral agreement'' refers to a framework 
        bilateral agreement between the Government of the United States 
        and the government of the country receiving assistance that 
        describes the privileges and immunities applicable to United 
        States foreign assistance for such country generally, or an 
        individual agreement between the Government of the United 
        States and such government that describes, among other things, 
        the treatment for tax purposes that will be accorded the United 
        States assistance provided under that agreement; and
            (2) the term ``taxes and taxation'' shall include value 
        added taxes and customs duties but shall not include individual 
        income taxes assessed to local staff.
    (h) Report.--The Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads 
of other relevant departments or agencies of the United States 
Government, shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations, 
not later than 90 days after the enactment of this Act, detailing steps 
taken by such departments or agencies to comply with the requirements 
of this section.

                         reservations of funds

    Sec. 7014. (a) Reprogramming.--Funds appropriated under titles III 
through VI of this Act which are specifically designated may be 
reprogrammed for other programs within the same account notwithstanding 
the designation if compliance with the designation is made impossible 
by operation of any provision of this or any other Act:  Provided, That 
any such reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That 
assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be 
made available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) Extension of Availability.--In addition to the authority 
contained in subsection (a), the original period of availability of 
funds appropriated by this Act and administered by the Department of 
State or the United States Agency for International Development that 
are specifically designated for particular programs or activities by 
this or any other Act may be extended for an additional fiscal year if 
the Secretary of State or the USAID Administrator, as appropriate, 
determines and reports promptly to the Committees on Appropriations 
that the termination of assistance to a country or a significant change 
in circumstances makes it unlikely that such designated funds can be 
obligated during the original period of availability:  Provided, That 
such designated funds that continue to be available for an additional 
fiscal year shall be obligated only for the purpose of such 
designation.
    (c) Other Acts.--Ceilings and specifically designated funding 
levels contained in this Act shall not be applicable to funds or 
authorities appropriated or otherwise made available by any subsequent 
Act unless such Act specifically so directs:  Provided, That 
specifically designated funding levels or minimum funding requirements 
contained in any other Act shall not be applicable to funds 
appropriated by this Act.

                       notification requirements

    Sec. 7015. (a) Notification of Changes in Programs, Projects, and 
Activities.--None of the funds made available in titles I and II of 
this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs to the departments and 
agencies funded by this Act that remain available for obligation in 
fiscal year 2017, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the 
United States derived by the collection of fees or of currency reflows 
or other offsetting collections, or made available by transfer, to the 
departments and agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation to--
            (1) create new programs;
            (2) eliminate a program, project, or activity;
            (3) close, suspend, open, or reopen a mission or post;
            (4) create, close, reorganize, or rename bureaus, centers, 
        or offices; or
            (5) contract out or privatize any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless previously justified to the Committees on Appropriations or such 
Committees are notified 15 days in advance of such obligation.
    (b) Notification of Reprogramming of Funds.--None of the funds 
provided under titles I and II of this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs, to the departments and agencies funded under titles I 
and II of this Act that remain available for obligation in fiscal year 
2017, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the department 
and agency funded under title I of this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects through 
a reprogramming of funds in excess of $1,000,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, that--
            (1) augments or changes existing programs, projects, or 
        activities;
            (2) relocates an existing office or employees;
            (3) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (4) results from any general savings, including savings 
        from a reduction in personnel, which would result in a change 
        in existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by 
        Congress;
unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance 
of such reprogramming of funds.
    (c) Notification Requirement.--None of the funds made available by 
this Act under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', ``Development 
Assistance'', ``International Organizations and Programs'', ``Trade and 
Development Agency'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', ``Peacekeeping 
Operations'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'', ``Millennium Challenge Corporation'', ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'', ``International Military Education and Training'', 
and ``Peace Corps'', shall be available for obligation for activities, 
programs, projects, type of materiel assistance, countries, or other 
operations not justified or in excess of the amount justified to the 
Committees on Appropriations for obligation under any of these specific 
headings unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days 
in advance:  Provided, That the President shall not enter into any 
commitment of funds appropriated for the purposes of section 23 of the 
Arms Export Control Act for the provision of major defense equipment, 
other than conventional ammunition, or other major defense items 
defined to be aircraft, ships, missiles, or combat vehicles, not 
previously justified to Congress or 20 percent in excess of the 
quantities justified to Congress unless the Committees on 
Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such commitment:  
Provided further, That requirements of this subsection or any similar 
provision of this or any other Act shall not apply to any reprogramming 
for an activity, program, or project for which funds are appropriated 
under titles III through VI of this Act of less than 10 percent of the 
amount previously justified to Congress for obligation for such 
activity, program, or project for the current fiscal year.
    (d) Notification of Transfer of Funds.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, with the exception of funds transferred to, and 
merged with, funds appropriated under title I of this Act, funds 
transferred by the Department of Defense to the Department of State and 
the United States Agency for International Development for assistance 
for foreign countries and international organizations, and funds made 
available for programs previously authorized under section 1206 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 
109-163) section 2282 of title 10, United States Code, or any successor 
authorities, shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Waiver.--The requirements of this section or any similar 
provision of this Act or any other Act, including any prior Act 
requiring notification in accordance with the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, may be waived if 
failure to do so would pose a substantial risk to human health or 
welfare:  Provided, That in case of any such waiver, notification to 
the Committees on Appropriations shall be provided as early as 
practicable, but in no event later than 3 days after taking the action 
to which such notification requirement was applicable, in the context 
of the circumstances necessitating such waiver:  Provided further, That 
any notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall contain an 
explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    (f) Country Notification Requirements.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be obligated 
or expended for assistance for Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bolivia, Burma, 
Cambodia, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Mexico, 
Pakistan, the Russian Federation, Somalia, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Syria, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, Yemen, and Zimbabwe except as 
provided through the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.
    (g) Program Notification Requirements.--Funds appropriated by this 
Act that are made available for the Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund 
and the Power Africa initiative shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (h) Pilot Program Notification Requirement.--Funds appropriated 
under Title I of this Act under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs'' that are made available for a pilot program for lateral 
entry into the Foreign Service, if authorized, shall be subject to 
prior consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, 
the Committees on Appropriations.
    (i) Withholding of Funds.--Funds appropriated by this Act under 
titles III and IV that are withheld from obligation or otherwise not 
programmed as a result of application of a provision of law in this or 
any other Act shall, if reprogrammed, be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                notification on excess defense equipment

    Sec. 7016.  Prior to providing excess Department of Defense 
articles in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations to the same extent and under the same conditions as 
other committees pursuant to subsection (f) of that section:  Provided, 
That before issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles 
under the Arms Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular 
notification procedures of such Committees if such defense articles are 
significant military equipment (as defined in section 47(9) of the Arms 
Export Control Act) or are valued (in terms of original acquisition 
cost) at $7,000,000 or more, or if notification is required elsewhere 
in this Act for the use of appropriated funds for specific countries 
that would receive such excess defense articles:  Provided further, 
That such Committees shall also be informed of the original acquisition 
cost of such defense articles.

limitation on availability of funds for international organizations and 
                                programs

    Sec. 7017.  Subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under titles I and III 
through V of this Act, which are returned or not made available for 
organizations and programs because of the implementation of section 
307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or section 7048(a) of this 
Act, shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 2019:  
Provided, That the requirement to withhold funds for programs in Burma 
under section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not 
apply to funds appropriated by this Act.

   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization

    Sec. 7018.  None of the funds made available to carry out part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortions as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or provide 
any financial incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None 
of the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any 
biomedical research which relates in whole or in part, to methods of, 
or the performance of, abortions or involuntary sterilization as a 
means of family planning. None of the funds made available to carry out 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
obligated or expended for any country or organization if the President 
certifies that the use of these funds by any such country or 
organization would violate any of the above provisions related to 
abortions and involuntary sterilizations.

                              allocations

    Sec. 7019. (a) Allocation Tables.--Subject to subsection (b), funds 
appropriated by this Act under titles III through V shall be made 
available in the amounts specifically designated in the respective 
tables included in the report accompanying this Act:  Provided, That 
such designated amounts for foreign countries and international 
organizations shall serve as the amounts for such countries and 
international organizations transmitted to Congress in the report 
required by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (b) Authorized Deviations.--Unless otherwise provided for by this 
Act, the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, as applicable, may only deviate 
up to 10 percent from the amounts specifically designated in the 
respective tables included in the report accompanying this Act:  
Provided, That such percentage may be exceeded only to respond to 
significant, exigent, or unforeseen events, or to address other 
exceptional circumstances directly related to the national interest:  
Provided further, That deviations pursuant to the previous proviso 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Limitation.--For specifically designated amounts that are 
included, pursuant to subsection (a), in the report required by section 
653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, no deviations authorized 
by subsection (b) may take place until submission of such report.

               representation and entertainment expenses

    Sec. 7020. (a) Uses of Funds.--Each Federal department, agency, or 
entity funded in titles I or II of this Act, and the Department of the 
Treasury and independent agencies funded in titles III or VI of this 
Act, shall take steps to ensure that domestic and overseas 
representation and entertainment expenses further official agency 
business and United States foreign policy interests--
            (1) are primarily for fostering relations outside of the 
        Executive Branch;
            (2) are principally for meals and events of a protocol 
        nature;
            (3) are not for employee-only events; and
            (4) do not include activities that are substantially of a 
        recreational character.
    (b) Limitations.--None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act under the headings ``International Military 
Education and Training'' or ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for 
Informational Program activities or under the headings ``Global Health 
Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', and 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' may be obligated or 
expended to pay for--
            (1) alcoholic beverages; or
            (2) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
        substantially of a recreational character, including but not 
        limited to entrance fees at sporting events, theatrical and 
        musical productions, and amusement parks.

   prohibition on assistance to governments supporting international 
                               terrorism

    Sec. 7021. (a) Lethal Military Equipment Exports.--
            (1) Prohibition.--None of the funds appropriated or 
        otherwise made available by titles III through VI of this Act 
        may be made available to any foreign government which provides 
        lethal military equipment to a country the government of which 
        the Secretary of State has determined supports international 
        terrorism for purposes of section 6(j) of the Export 
        Administration Act of 1979 as continued in effect pursuant to 
        the International Emergency Economic Powers Act:  Provided, 
        That the prohibition under this section with respect to a 
        foreign government shall terminate 12 months after that 
        government ceases to provide such military equipment:  Provided 
        further, That this section applies with respect to lethal 
        military equipment provided under a contract entered into after 
        October 1, 1997.
            (2) Determination.--Assistance restricted by paragraph (1) 
        or any other similar provision of law, may be furnished if the 
        President determines that to do so is important to the national 
        interest of the United States.
            (3) Report.--Whenever the President makes a determination 
        pursuant to paragraph (2), the President shall submit to the 
        Committees on Appropriations a report with respect to the 
        furnishing of such assistance, including a detailed explanation 
        of the assistance to be provided, the estimated dollar amount 
        of such assistance, and an explanation of how the assistance 
        furthers United States national interest.
    (b) Bilateral Assistance.--
            (1) Limitations.--Funds appropriated for bilateral 
        assistance in titles III through VI of this Act and funds 
        appropriated under any such title in prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs, shall not be made available to any 
        foreign government which the President determines--
                    (A) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any 
                individual or group which has committed an act of 
                international terrorism;
                    (B) otherwise supports international terrorism; or
                    (C) is controlled by an organization designated as 
                a terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
            (2) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) to a government if the President determines that 
        national security or humanitarian reasons justify such waiver:  
        Provided, That the President shall publish each such waiver in 
        the Federal Register and, at least 15 days before the waiver 
        takes effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of 
        the waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in 
        accordance with the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.

                       authorization requirements

    Sec. 7022.  Funds appropriated by this Act, except funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Trade and Development Agency'', may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
(22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956, section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).

              definition of program, project, and activity

    Sec. 7023.  For the purpose of titles II through VI of this Act 
``program, project, and activity'' shall be defined at the 
appropriations Act account level and shall include all appropriations 
and authorizations Acts funding directives, ceilings, and limitations 
with the exception that for the following accounts: ``Economic Support 
Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and 
``Foreign Military Financing Program'', ``program, project, and 
activity'' shall also be considered to include country, regional, and 
central program level funding within each such account; and for the 
development assistance accounts of the United States Agency for 
International Development, ``program, project, and activity'' shall 
also be considered to include central, country, regional, and program 
level funding, either as--
            (1) justified to Congress; or
            (2) allocated by the Executive Branch in accordance with a 
        report, to be provided to the Committees on Appropriations 
        within 30 days of the enactment of this Act, as required by 
        section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or as 
        modified pursuant to section 7019 of this Act.

             near east and africa relief and recovery fund

    Sec. 7024. (a) Appropriation.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
$25,000,000 shall be made available for assistance for areas liberated 
from, or under the influence of, extremist organizations in and around 
the Near East and Africa regions:  Provided, That such funds are in 
addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes:  Provided 
further, That such funds shall be considered to be the ``Near East and 
Africa Relief and Recovery Fund''.
    (b) Availability.--Funds made available pursuant to subsection (a) 
may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
except section 7018 of this Act and section 620M of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961:  Provided, That such funds shall be made 
available, to the maximum extent practicable, on a cost-matching basis 
from sources other than the United States Government, except that no 
such funds may be made available for the costs of significant 
infrastructure projects:  Provided further, That such funds made 
available for assistance for Iraq may only be made available with the 
concurrence of the Chief of Mission in Iraq.
    (c) Purposes.--Funds made available pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall be made available for programs that address basic needs in the 
Near East and Africa regions, including--
            (1) food, water and sanitation;
            (2) rule of law and governance, including for countering 
        extremism, transitional justice, and reconciliation programs;
            (3) relief efforts related to refugees, internally 
        displaced persons, and other vulnerable individuals;
            (4) electricity;
            (5) healthcare;
            (6) economic and agricultural development;
            (7) education, including vocational training; and
            (8) transportation.
    (d) Transfer of Funds.--Funds made available pursuant to subsection 
(a) may be transferred to, and merged with, with funds appropriated by 
this Act under the headings ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'', ``Peacekeeping Operations'', and ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'' for assistance for countries in the Near East and 
Africa regions, following consultation with, and subject to the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Spend Plan and Oversight Requirements.--Prior to the obligation 
of funds made available pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary of 
State shall--
            (1) submit a spend plan to the Committees on 
        Appropriations; and
            (2) take all practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms 
        are in place for monitoring, oversight, and control of such 
        funds:  Provided, That the Secretary shall promptly inform the 
        appropriate congressional committees of each instance in which 
        a significant amount of assistance provided pursuant to this 
        subsection has been misappropriated, to include the type and 
        amount of assistance, a description of the incident and parties 
        involved, and an explanation of the response of the Department 
        of State.
    (f) Notification Requirement.--Funds made available pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall be subject to the regular notification procedures 
of the Committees on Appropriations.

                commerce, trade and surplus commodities

    Sec. 7025. (a) World Markets.--None of the funds appropriated or 
made available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act for direct 
assistance and none of the funds otherwise made available to the 
Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
shall be obligated or expended to finance any loan, any assistance, or 
any other financial commitments for establishing or expanding 
production of any commodity for export by any country other than the 
United States, if the commodity is likely to be in surplus on world 
markets at the time the resulting productive capacity is expected to 
become operative and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to 
United States producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity:  
Provided, That such prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import 
Bank if in the judgment of its Board of Directors the benefits to 
industry and employment in the United States are likely to outweigh the 
injury to United States producers of the same, similar, or competing 
commodity, and the Chairman of the Board so notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That this subsection shall not 
prohibit--
            (1) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
        from the International Development Association, is not eligible 
        for assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction 
        and Development, and does not export on a consistent basis the 
        agricultural commodity with respect to which assistance is 
        furnished; or
            (2) activities in a country the President determines is 
        recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, or 
        a complex emergency.
    (b) Exports.--None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 shall be available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, 
variety improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, 
conference, or training in connection with the growth or production in 
a foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export which would 
compete with a similar commodity grown or produced in the United 
States:  Provided, That this subsection shall not prohibit--
            (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
        developing countries where such activities will not have a 
        significant impact on the export of agricultural commodities of 
        the United States;
            (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
        United States producers;
            (3) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
        from the International Development Association, is not eligible 
        for assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction 
        and Development, and does not export on a consistent basis the 
        agricultural commodity with respect to which assistance is 
        furnished; or
            (4) activities in a country the President determines is 
        recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, or 
        a complex emergency.
    (c) International Financial Institutions.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States executive directors of the 
international financial institutions, as defined in section 7034(r)(3) 
of this Act, to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose 
any assistance by such institutions, using funds appropriated or made 
available by this Act, for the production or extraction of any 
commodity or mineral for export, if it is in surplus on world markets 
and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to United States 
producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity.

                           separate accounts

    Sec. 7026. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--
            (1) Agreements.--If assistance is furnished to the 
        government of a foreign country under chapters 1 and 10 of part 
        I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        under agreements which result in the generation of local 
        currencies of that country, the Administrator of the United 
        States Agency for International Development shall--
                    (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a 
                separate account established by that government;
                    (B) enter into an agreement with that government 
                which sets forth--
                            (i) the amount of the local currencies to 
                        be generated; and
                            (ii) the terms and conditions under which 
                        the currencies so deposited may be utilized, 
                        consistent with this section; and
                    (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
                responsibilities of USAID and that government to 
                monitor and account for deposits into and disbursements 
                from the separate account.
            (2) Uses of local currencies.--As may be agreed upon with 
        the foreign government, local currencies deposited in a 
        separate account pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent 
        amount of local currencies, shall be used only--
                    (A) to carry out chapter 1 or 10 of part I or 
                chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (as the case may be), for such purposes as--
                            (i) project and sector assistance 
                        activities; or
                            (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
                    (B) for the administrative requirements of the 
                United States Government.
            (3) Programming accountability.--USAID shall take all 
        necessary steps to ensure that the equivalent of the local 
        currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(A) from the 
        separate account established pursuant to subsection (a)(1) are 
        used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection 
        (a)(2).
            (4) Termination of assistance programs.--Upon termination 
        of assistance to a country under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or 
        chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as 
        the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds which 
        remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection 
        (a) shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to 
        by the government of that country and the United States 
        Government.
            (5) Reporting requirement.--The USAID Administrator shall 
        report on an annual basis as part of the justification 
        documents submitted to the Committees on Appropriations on the 
        use of local currencies for the administrative requirements of 
        the United States Government as authorized in subsection 
        (a)(2)(B), and such report shall include the amount of local 
        currency (and United States dollar equivalent) used or to be 
        used for such purpose in each applicable country.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--
            (1) In general.--If assistance is made available to the 
        government of a foreign country, under chapter 1 or 10 of part 
        I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961, as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector 
        assistance, that country shall be required to maintain such 
        funds in a separate account and not commingle with any other 
        funds.
            (2) Applicability of other provisions of law.--Such funds 
        may be obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law 
        which are inconsistent with the nature of this assistance 
        including provisions which are referenced in the Joint 
        Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
        accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (House Report No. 98-
        1159).
            (3) Notification.--At least 15 days prior to obligating any 
        such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the 
        President shall submit a notification through the regular 
        notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
        which shall include a detailed description of how the funds 
        proposed to be made available will be used, with a discussion 
        of the United States interests that will be served by the 
        assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of the 
        economic policy reforms that will be promoted by such 
        assistance).
            (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be 
        exempt from the requirements of paragraph (1) only through the 
        regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
        Appropriations.

                       eligibility for assistance

    Sec. 7027. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 
11, and 12 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 and from funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'':  Provided, That before using 
the authority of this subsection to furnish assistance in support of 
programs of nongovernmental organizations, the President shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations pursuant to the regular notification 
procedures, including a description of the program to be assisted, the 
assistance to be provided, and the reasons for furnishing such 
assistance:  Provided further, That nothing in this subsection shall be 
construed to alter any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion 
or involuntary sterilizations contained in this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 2017, restrictions 
contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a 
country shall not be construed to restrict assistance under the Food 
for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480):  Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated to carry out title I of such Act and made available 
pursuant to this subsection may be obligated or expended except as 
provided through the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
            (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to countries that support international terrorism; 
        or
            (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to the government of a country that violates 
        internationally recognized human rights.

                           local competition

    Sec. 7028. (a) Requirements for Exceptions to Competition for Local 
Entities.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are made available to 
the United States Agency for International Development may only be made 
available for limited competitions through local entities if--
            (1) prior to the determination to limit competition to 
        local entities, USAID has--
                    (A) assessed the level of local capacity to 
                effectively implement, manage, and account for programs 
                included in such competition; and
                    (B) documented the written results of the 
                assessment and decisions made; and
            (2) prior to making an award after limiting competition to 
        local entities--
                    (A) each successful local entity has been 
                determined to be responsible in accordance with USAID 
                guidelines; and
                    (B) effective monitoring and evaluation systems are 
                in place to ensure that award funding is used for its 
                intended purposes; and
            (3) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed.
    (b) Reporting Requirement.--In addition to the requirements of 
subsection (a)(1), the USAID Administrator shall report, on an annual 
basis, to the appropriate congressional committees on all awards 
subject to limited or no competition for local entities:  Provided, 
That such report should be posted on the USAID Web site:  Provided 
further, That the requirements of this subsection shall only apply to 
awards in excess of $3,000,000 and sole source awards to local entities 
in excess of $2,000,000.
    (c) Extension of Procurement Authority.--Section 7077 of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 112-74), as amended, 
shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2017.

                  international financial institutions

    Sec. 7029. (a) Evaluations and Report.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States executive director of each 
international financial institution to seek to require that such 
institution adopts and implements a publicly available policy, 
including the strategic use of peer reviews and external experts, to 
conduct independent, in-depth evaluations of the effectiveness of at 
least 35 percent of all loans, grants, programs, and significant 
analytical non-lending activities in advancing the institution's goals 
of reducing poverty and promoting equitable economic growth, consistent 
with relevant safeguards, to ensure that decisions to support such 
loans, grants, programs, and activities are based on accurate data and 
objective analysis:  Provided, That not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on steps taken by the United States 
executive directors and the international financial institutions 
consistent with this subsection.
    (b) Safeguards.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States Executive Director of the International Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development and the International 
        Development Association to vote against any loan, grant, 
        policy, or strategy if such institution has adopted and is 
        implementing any social or environmental safeguard relevant to 
        such loan, grant, policy, or strategy that provides less 
        protection than World Bank safeguards in effect on September 
        30, 2015.
            (2) The Secretary of the Treasury should instruct the 
        United States executive director of each international 
        financial institution to vote against loans or other financing 
        for projects unless such projects--
                    (A) provide for accountability and transparency, 
                including the collection, verification and publication 
                of beneficial ownership information related to 
                extractive industries and on-site monitoring during the 
                life of the project;
                    (B) will be developed and carried out in accordance 
                with best practices regarding environmental 
                conservation; cultural protection; and empowerment of 
                local populations, including free, prior and informed 
                consent of affected indigenous communities;
                    (C) do not provide incentives for, or facilitate, 
                forced displacement; and
                    (D) do not partner with or otherwise involve 
                enterprises owned or controlled by the armed forces.
    (c) Compensation.--None of the funds appropriated under title V of 
this Act may be made as payment to any international financial 
institution while the United States executive director to such 
institution is compensated by the institution at a rate which, together 
with whatever compensation such executive director receives from the 
United States, is in excess of the rate provided for an individual 
occupying a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, or while any alternate 
United States executive director to such institution is compensated by 
the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided for an 
individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Human Rights.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States executive director of each international financial 
institution to seek to require that such institution conducts rigorous 
human rights due diligence and risk management, as appropriate, in 
connection with any loan, grant, policy, or strategy of such 
institution:  Provided, That prior to voting on any such loan, grant, 
policy, or strategy the executive director shall consult with the 
Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department 
of State, if the executive director has reason to believe that such 
loan, grant, policy, or strategy could result in forced displacement or 
other violation of human rights.
    (e) Fraud and Corruption.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
instruct the United States executive director of each international 
financial institution to promote in loan, grant, and other financing 
agreements improvements in borrowing countries' financial management 
and judicial capacity to investigate, prosecute, and punish fraud and 
corruption.
    (f) Beneficial Ownership Information.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States executive director of each 
international financial institution to seek to require that such 
institution collects, verifies, and publishes, to the maximum extent 
practicable, beneficial ownership information (excluding proprietary 
information) for any corporation or limited liability company, other 
than a publicly listed company, that receives funds from any such 
financial institution:  Provided, That not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on steps taken by the United States 
executive directors and the international financial institutions 
consistent with this subsection.
    (g) Whistleblower Protections.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
instruct the United States executive director of each international 
financial institution to seek to require that each such institution is 
effectively implementing and enforcing policies and procedures which 
reflect best practices for the protection of whistleblowers from 
retaliation, including best practices for--
            (1) protection against retaliation for internal and lawful 
        public disclosure;
            (2) legal burdens of proof;
            (3) statutes of limitation for reporting retaliation;
            (4) access to independent adjudicative bodies, including 
        external arbitration; and
            (5) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
        retaliation.

                          debt-for-development

    Sec. 7030.  In order to enhance the continued participation of 
nongovernmental organizations in debt-for-development and debt-for-
nature exchanges, a nongovernmental organization which is a grantee or 
contractor of the United States Agency for International Development 
may place in interest bearing accounts local currencies which accrue to 
that organization as a result of economic assistance provided under 
title III of this Act and, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, any interest earned on 
such investment shall be used for the purpose for which the assistance 
was provided to that organization.

              financial management and budget transparency

    Sec. 7031. (a) Limitation on Direct Government-to-Government 
Assistance.--
            (1) Requirements.--Funds appropriated by this Act may be 
        made available for direct government-to-government assistance 
        only if--
                    (A)(i) each implementing agency or ministry to 
                receive assistance has been assessed and is considered 
                to have the systems required to manage such assistance 
                and any identified vulnerabilities or weaknesses of 
                such agency or ministry have been addressed;
                    (ii) the recipient agency or ministry employs and 
                utilizes staff with the necessary technical, financial, 
                and management capabilities;
                    (iii) the recipient agency or ministry has adopted 
                competitive procurement policies and systems;
                    (iv) effective monitoring and evaluation systems 
                are in place to ensure that such assistance is used for 
                its intended purposes;
                    (v) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed; and
                    (vi) the government of the recipient country is 
                taking steps to publicly disclose on an annual basis 
                its national budget, to include income and 
                expenditures;
                    (B) the recipient government is in compliance with 
                the principles set forth in section 7013 of this Act;
                    (C) the recipient agency or ministry is not headed 
                or controlled by an organization designated as a 
                foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
                    (D) the Government of the United States and the 
                government of the recipient country have agreed, in 
                writing, on clear and achievable objectives for the use 
                of such assistance, which should be made available on a 
                cost-reimbursable basis; and
                    (E) the recipient government is taking steps to 
                protect the rights of civil society, including freedoms 
                of expression, association, and assembly.
            (2) Consultation and notification.--In addition to the 
        requirements in paragraph (1), no funds may be made available 
        for direct government-to-government assistance without prior 
        consultation with, and notification of, the Committees on 
        Appropriations:  Provided, That such notification shall contain 
        an explanation of how the proposed activity meets the 
        requirements of paragraph (1):  Provided further, That the 
        requirements of this paragraph shall only apply to direct 
        government-to-government assistance in excess of $10,000,000 
        and all funds available for cash transfer, budget support, and 
        cash payments to individuals.
            (3) Suspension of assistance.--The Administrator of the 
        United States Agency for International Development or the 
        Secretary of State, as appropriate, shall suspend any direct 
        government-to-government assistance if the Administrator or the 
        Secretary has credible information of material misuse of such 
        assistance, unless the Administrator or the Secretary reports 
        to the Committees on Appropriations that it is in the national 
        interest of the United States to continue such assistance, 
        including a justification, or that such misuse has been 
        appropriately addressed.
            (4) Submission of information.--The Secretary of State 
        shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations, concurrent 
        with the fiscal year 2018 congressional budget justification 
        materials, amounts planned for assistance described in 
        paragraph (1) by country, proposed funding amount, source of 
        funds, and type of assistance.
            (5) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the enactment of 
        this Act and 6 months thereafter until September 30, 2017, the 
        USAID Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations a report that--
                    (A) details all assistance described in paragraph 
                (1) provided during the previous 6-month period by 
                country, funding amount, source of funds, and type of 
                such assistance; and
                    (B) the type of procurement instrument or mechanism 
                utilized and whether the assistance was provided on a 
                reimbursable basis.
            (6) Debt service payment prohibition.--None of the funds 
        made available by this Act may be used by the government of any 
        foreign country for debt service payments owed by any country 
        to any international financial institution:  Provided, That for 
        purposes of this paragraph, the term ``international financial 
        institution'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        7034(r)(3) of this Act.
    (b) National Budget and Contract Transparency.--
            (1) Minimum requirements of fiscal transparency.--The 
        Secretary of State shall continue to update and strengthen the 
        ``minimum requirements of fiscal transparency'' for each 
        government receiving assistance appropriated by this Act, as 
        identified in the report required by section 7031(b) of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).
            (2) Definition.--For purposes of paragraph (1), ``minimum 
        requirements of fiscal transparency'' are requirements 
        consistent with those in subsection (a)(1), and the public 
        disclosure of national budget documentation (to include 
        receipts and expenditures by ministry) and government contracts 
        and licenses for natural resource extraction (to include 
        bidding and concession allocation practices).
            (3) Determination and report.--For each government 
        identified pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of State, 
        not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, shall make 
        or update any determination of ``significant progress'' or ``no 
        significant progress'' in meeting the minimum requirements of 
        fiscal transparency, and make such determinations publicly 
        available in an annual ``Fiscal Transparency Report'' to be 
        posted on the Department of State Web site:  Provided, That the 
        Secretary shall identify the significant progress made by each 
        such government to publicly disclose national budget 
        documentation, contracts, and licenses which are additional to 
        such information disclosed in previous fiscal years, and 
        include specific recommendations of short- and long-term steps 
        such government should take to improve fiscal transparency:  
        Provided further, That the annual report shall include a 
        detailed description of how funds appropriated by this Act are 
        being used to improve fiscal transparency, and identify 
        benchmarks for measuring progress.
            (4) Assistance.--Funds appropriated under title III of this 
        Act shall be made available for programs and activities to 
        assist governments identified pursuant to paragraph (1) to 
        improve budget transparency and to support civil society 
        organizations in such countries that promote budget 
        transparency:  Provided, That such sums shall be in addition to 
        funds otherwise available for such purposes:  Provided further, 
        That a description of the uses of such funds shall be included 
        in the annual ``Fiscal Transparency Report'' required by 
        paragraph (3).
    (c) Anti-Kleptocracy and Human Rights.--
            (1)(A) Ineligibility.--Officials of foreign governments and 
        their immediate family members about whom the Secretary of 
        State has credible information have been involved in 
        significant corruption, including corruption related to the 
        extraction of natural resources, or a gross violation of human 
        rights shall be ineligible for entry into the United States.
            (B) The Secretary shall also publicly or privately 
        designate or identify officials of foreign governments and 
        their immediate family members about whom the Secretary has 
        such credible information without regard to whether the 
        individual has applied for a visa.
            (2) Exception.--Individuals shall not be ineligible if 
        entry into the United States would further important United 
        States law enforcement objectives or is necessary to permit the 
        United States to fulfill its obligations under the United 
        Nations Headquarters Agreement:  Provided, That nothing in 
        paragraph (1) shall be construed to derogate from United States 
        Government obligations under applicable international 
        agreements.
            (3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that the waiver would 
        serve a compelling national interest or that the circumstances 
        which caused the individual to be ineligible have changed 
        sufficiently.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 6 months after enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report, 
        including a classified annex if necessary, to the Committees on 
        Appropriations and the Committees on the Judiciary describing 
        the information related to corruption or violation of human 
        rights concerning each of the individuals found ineligible in 
        the previous 12 months pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) as well as 
        the individuals who the Secretary designated or identified 
        pursuant to paragraph (1)(B), or who would be ineligible but 
        for the application of paragraph (2), a list of any waivers 
        provided under paragraph (3), and the justification for each 
        waiver.
            (5) Posting of report.--Any unclassified portion of the 
        report required under paragraph (4) shall be posted on the 
        Department of State Web site.
            (6) Clarification.--For purposes of paragraphs (1)(B), (4), 
        and (5), the records of the Department of State and of 
        diplomatic and consular offices of the United States pertaining 
        to the issuance or refusal of visas or permits to enter the 
        United States shall not be considered confidential.
    (d) Networks of Corruption.--If the Secretary of State has credible 
information of networks of corruption involving the direct or indirect 
participation of, or support from, a foreign official in a country that 
receives assistance funded by this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees describing such networks, which 
shall include the information required under the ``Economic Support 
Fund'' heading in the report accompanying this Act.
    (e) Extraction of Natural Resources.--
            (1) Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
        made available to promote and support transparency and 
        accountability of expenditures and revenues related to the 
        extraction of natural resources, including by strengthening 
        implementation and monitoring of the Extractive Industries 
        Transparency Initiative, implementing and enforcing section 
        8204 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public 
        Law 110-246; 122 Stat. 2052) and to prevent the sale of 
        conflict diamonds, and provide technical assistance to promote 
        independent audit mechanisms and support civil society 
        participation in natural resource management.
            (2) United states policy.--
                    (A) The Secretary of the Treasury shall inform the 
                management of the international financial institutions, 
                and post on the Department of the Treasury Web site, 
                that it is the policy of the United States to vote 
                against any assistance by such institutions (including 
                any loan, credit, grant, or guarantee) to any country 
                for the extraction and export of a natural resource if 
                the government of such country has in place laws, 
                regulations, or procedures to prevent or limit the 
                public disclosure of company payments as required by 
                United States law, and unless such government has 
                adopted laws, regulations, or procedures in the sector 
                in which assistance is being considered for--
                            (i) accurately accounting for and public 
                        disclosure of payments to the host government 
                        by companies involved in the extraction and 
                        export of natural resources;
                            (ii) the independent auditing of accounts 
                        receiving such payments and public disclosure 
                        of the findings of such audits; and
                            (iii) public disclosure of such documents 
                        as Host Government Agreements, Concession 
                        Agreements, and bidding documents, allowing in 
                        any such dissemination or disclosure for the 
                        redaction of, or exceptions for, information 
                        that is commercially proprietary or that would 
                        create competitive disadvantage.
                    (B) The requirements of subparagraph (A) shall not 
                apply to assistance for the purpose of building the 
                capacity of such government to meet the requirements of 
                this subparagraph.
    (f) Foreign Assistance Web Site.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under titles I and II, and funds made available for any independent 
agency in title III, as appropriate, shall be made available to support 
the provision of additional information on United States Government 
foreign assistance on the Department of State foreign assistance Web 
site:  Provided, That all Federal agencies funded under this Act shall 
provide such information on foreign assistance, upon request, to the 
Department of State.

                           democracy programs

    Sec. 7032. (a) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and 
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not less than 
$2,576,000,000 shall be made available for democracy programs, of which 
amounts shall be allocated as follows--
            (1) not less than $339,325,000 for Africa, of which not 
        less than $33,000,000 shall be made available for democracy 
        programs for Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria, following 
        consultation with the Committees on Appropriations;
            (2) not less than $148,808,000 for the East Asia and 
        Pacific region;
            (3) not less than $232,292,000 for Europe and Eurasia;
            (4) not less than $429,515,000 for the Near East region, of 
        which not less than $32,000,000 shall be made available for the 
        Near East Regional Democracy program and not less than 
        $55,000,000 shall be made available for democracy programs for 
        Iraq under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'';
            (5) not less than $777,443,000 for South and Central Asia;
            (6) not less than $577,545,000 for the Western Hemisphere; 
        and
            (7) not less than $71,072,000 for global programs.
    (b) Authorities.--
            (1) Funds made available by this Act for democracy programs 
        may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, and with regard to the National Endowment for Democracy 
        (NED), any regulation.
            (2) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Democracy Fund'' may be made available notwithstanding 
        section 7015 of this Act for rapid response assistance if the 
        Secretary of State or USAID Administrator, as appropriate, 
        submits a report to the Committees on Appropriations at least 5 
        days in advance of the obligation of such funds detailing the 
        circumstances requiring such a response.
    (c) Definition of Democracy Programs.--For purposes of funds 
appropriated by this Act, the term ``democracy programs'' means 
programs that support good governance, credible and competitive 
elections, freedom of expression, association, assembly, and religion, 
human rights, labor rights, independent media, and the rule of law, and 
that otherwise strengthen the capacity of democratic political parties, 
governments, nongovernmental organizations and institutions, and 
citizens to support the development of democratic states, and 
institutions that are responsive and accountable to citizens.
    (d) Restriction on Prior Approval.--With respect to the provision 
of assistance for democracy programs in this Act, the organizations 
implementing such assistance, the specific nature of that assistance, 
and the participants in such programs shall not be subject to the prior 
approval by the government of any foreign country:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of State, in coordination with the USAID Administrator, shall 
report to the Committees on Appropriations, not later than 120 days 
after enactment of this Act, detailing steps taken by the Department of 
State and USAID to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
    (e) Continuation of Current Practices.--USAID shall continue to 
implement civil society and political competition and consensus 
building programs abroad with funds appropriated by this Act in a 
manner that recognizes the unique benefits of grants and cooperative 
agreements in implementing such programs:  Provided, That nothing in 
this paragraph shall be construed to affect the ability of any entity, 
including United States small businesses, from competing for proposals 
for USAID-funded civil society and political competition and consensus 
building programs.
    (f) Country Strategy Strategic Reviews.--Prior to the obligation of 
funds made available by this Act for Department of State and USAID 
democracy programs for a nondemocratic or democratic transitioning 
country for which a country strategy has been concluded after the date 
of enactment of this Act, as required by section 2111(c)(1) of the 
ADVANCE Democracy Act of 2007 (title XXI of Public Law 110-53; 22 
U.S.C. 8211) or similar provision of law or regulation, the Under 
Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy and Human Rights, Department 
of State, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, 
Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, and the Assistant 
Administrator for Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, 
USAID, shall review such strategy to ensure that it includes--
            (1) specific goals and objectives for such program, 
        including a specific plan and timeline to measure impacts;
            (2) an assessment of the risks associated with the conduct 
        of such program to intended beneficiaries and implementers, 
        including steps to support and protect such individuals; and
            (3) the funding requirements to initiate and sustain such 
        program in fiscal year 2017 and subsequent fiscal years, as 
        appropriate:
  Provided, That for the purposes of this paragraph, the term 
``nondemocratic or democratic transitioning country'' shall have the 
same meaning as in section 2104(6) of Public Law 110-53.
    (g) Consultation and Communication Requirements.--
            (1) Country allocations.--The Deputy Secretary for 
        Management and Resources, Department of State, shall consult 
        with the Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy and 
        Human Rights, Department of State, and the Assistant 
        Administrator for Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian 
        Assistance, USAID, on the proposed funding levels for democracy 
        programs by country in the report submitted to Congress 
        pursuant to section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961.
            (2) Informing the national endowment for democracy.--The 
        Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
        Department of State, and the Assistant Administrator for 
        Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, USAID, shall 
        regularly inform the National Endowment for Democracy of 
        democracy programs that are planned and supported by funds made 
        available by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for 
        the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
        programs.
    (h) Transparency.--The USAID Administrator shall publish on the 
USAID Web site the justification for the choice of instrument for each 
democracy, human rights, and governance program funded by this Act:  
Provided, That the requirement of this paragraph shall only apply to an 
award exceeding $1,000,000.

                    international religious freedom

    Sec. 7033. (a) International Religious Freedom Office and Special 
Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', not less 
than $8,000,000 shall be made available for the Office of International 
Religious Freedom, Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
Department of State, of which not less than $6,000,000 shall be made 
available for the Office of the Ambassador-at-Large for International 
Religious Freedom, and not less than $2,000,000 shall be made available 
for the Special Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom of Religious 
Minorities in the Near East and South Central Asia, as authorized in 
the Near East and South Central Asia Religious Freedom Act of 2014 
(Public Law 113-161), including for support staff.
    (b) Assistance.--
            (1) International religious freedom programs.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Democracy Fund'' 
        and available for the Human Rights and Democracy Fund (HRDF), 
        not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
        international religious freedom programs:  Provided, That the 
        Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom shall 
        consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the uses of 
        such funds.
            (2) Protection and investigation programs.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
        Fund'', not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
        programs to protect vulnerable and persecuted religious 
        minorities:  Provided, That a portion of such funds shall be 
        made available for programs to investigate the persecution of 
        such minorities by governments and non-state actors and for the 
        public dissemination of information collected on such 
        persecution, including on the Department of State Web site.
            (3) Transitional justice, reconciliation, and reintegration 
        programs in the middle east and north africa regions.--
                    (A) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
                Act and after consultation with relevant central 
                governments in the Middle East and North Africa 
                regions, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
                Committees on Appropriations a plan for transitional 
                justice, reconciliation, and reintegration programs for 
                vulnerable and persecuted religious minorities in such 
                regions:  Provided, That such plan shall include a 
                description of actions to be taken by such governments 
                to safeguard and promote the political and economic 
                rights of such minorities, including the return, 
                rehabilitation, and protection of property in areas of 
                conflict.
                    (B) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made 
                available for assistance for Iraq and Syria, not less 
                than $5,000,000 shall be made available to support the 
                implementation of the plan required by subparagraph 
                (A):  Provided, That such funds shall be matched, to 
                the maximum extent practicable, from sources other than 
                the United States Government.
            (4) Humanitarian programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the headings ``International Disaster Assistance'' and 
        ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' shall be made available 
        for humanitarian assistance for vulnerable and persecuted 
        religious minorities who have been impacted by a man-made or 
        natural disaster, including conflict caused by extremist 
        organizations.
            (5) Responsibility of funds.--Funds made available by 
        paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) shall be the responsibility of the 
        Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom, in 
        consultation with other relevant United States Government 
        officials.
    (c) International Broadcasting.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Broadcasting Board of Governors, International 
Broadcasting Operations'' shall be made available for programs related 
to international religious freedom, including reporting on the 
condition of vulnerable and persecuted religious groups.
    (d) Atrocities Prevention Fund.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not less than $25,000,000 
shall be made available for programs to prevent atrocities and to 
implement the recommendations of the Atrocities Prevention Board, 
including with respect to the evaluation required by section 7033(d) of 
the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 113-114):  Provided, 
That the uses of such funds shall be the responsibility of the Under 
Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights, 
Department of State:  Provided further, That such funds shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (e) Designation of Non-State Actors.--The President shall, 
concurrent with the annual foreign country review required by section 
402(b)(1) of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 
6442(b)(1)), review and identify any non-state actors in such countries 
that have engaged in particularly severe violations of religious 
freedom, and designate, in a manner consistent with such Act, each such 
group as a non-state actor of particular concern for religious freedom 
operating in such reviewed country or surrounding region:  Provided, 
That whenever the President designates such a non-state actor under 
this subsection, the President shall, as soon as practicable after the 
designation is made, submit a report to the appropriate congressional 
committees detailing the reasons for such designation.

                           special provisions

    Sec. 7034. (a) Victims of War, Displaced Children, and Displaced 
Burmese.--Funds appropriated in titles III and VI of this Act that are 
made available for victims of war, displaced children, displaced 
Burmese, and to combat trafficking in persons and assist victims of 
such trafficking, may be made available notwithstanding any other 
provision of law.
    (b) Law Enforcement and Security.--
            (1) Child soldiers.--Funds appropriated by this Act should 
        not be used to support any military training or operations that 
        include child soldiers.
            (2) Crowd control items.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        should not be used for tear gas, small arms, light weapons, 
        ammunition, or other items for crowd control purposes for 
        foreign security forces that use excessive force to repress 
        peaceful expression, association, or assembly in countries 
        undergoing democratic transition.
            (3) Disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration.--
        Section 7034(d) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
        and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of 
        Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect during fiscal year 
        2017.
            (4) Forensic assistance.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
        $9,000,000 shall be made available for forensic anthropology 
        assistance related to the exhumation of mass graves and the 
        identification of victims of war crimes and crimes against 
        humanity, including in Iraq, Guatemala, and Sri Lanka, which 
        shall be administered by the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, 
        Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State.
            (5) Women's participation in military training and 
        education.--The Secretary of State shall instruct the Chief of 
        Mission in each country for which funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the heading ``International Military Education and 
        Training'' are made available to work with the government of 
        such country to increase the participation of women in programs 
        supported with such funds, with the goal of doubling female 
        participation in such programs globally by September 30, 2019.
            (6) International prison conditions.--Section 7065 of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) 
        shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2017.
            (7) Reconstituting civilian police authority.--In providing 
        assistance with funds appropriated by this Act under section 
        660(b)(6) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, support for a 
        nation emerging from instability may be deemed to mean support 
        for regional, district, municipal, or other sub-national entity 
        emerging from instability, as well as a nation emerging from 
        instability.
            (8) Security assistance report.--Not later than 120 days 
        after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
        submit to the Committees on Appropriations a report on funds 
        obligated and expended during fiscal year 2016, by country and 
        purpose of assistance, under the headings ``Peacekeeping 
        Operations'', ``International Military Education and 
        Training'', and ``Foreign Military Financing Program''.
            (9) Vetting report.--
                    (A) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
                Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to 
                the appropriate congressional committees on foreign 
                assistance cases submitted for vetting for purposes of 
                section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
                during the preceding fiscal year, including--
                            (i) the total number of cases submitted, 
                        approved, suspended, or rejected for human 
                        rights reasons; and
                            (ii) for cases rejected, a description of 
                        the steps taken to assist the foreign 
                        government in taking effective measures to 
                        bring the responsible members of the security 
                        forces to justice, in accordance with section 
                        620M(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
                    (B) The report required by this paragraph shall be 
                submitted in unclassified form, but may be accompanied 
                by a classified annex.
            (10) Annual foreign military training report.--For the 
        purposes of implementing section 656 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961, the term ``military training provided to foreign 
        military personnel by the Department of Defense and the 
        Department of State'' shall be deemed to include all military 
        training provided by foreign governments with funds 
        appropriated to the Department of Defense or the Department of 
        State, except for training provided by the government of a 
        country designated by section 517(b) of such Act as a major 
        non-NATO ally.
            (11) Proliferation security initiative.--Funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' may only be made available to countries that have 
        demonstrated a commitment to stop the proliferation of weapons 
        of mass destruction through participating in the Proliferation 
        Security Initiative (PSI) and endorsing the PSI Statement of 
        Interdiction Principles:  Provided, That the Secretary of State 
        may waive the requirement of this paragraph on a country-by-
        country basis if the Secretary determines and reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that to do so is in the national 
        interest, and submits a justification to such Committees for 
        each such waiver on such basis.
    (c) World Food Programme.--Funds managed by the Bureau for 
Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, United States Agency 
for International Development, from this or any other Act, may be made 
available as a general contribution to the World Food Programme, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (d) Directives and Authorities.--
            (1) Research and training.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
        Asia'' shall be made available to carry out the Program for 
        Research and Training on Eastern Europe and the Independent 
        States of the Former Soviet Union as authorized by the Soviet-
        Eastern European Research and Training Act of 1983 (22 U.S.C. 
        4501 et seq.).
            (2) Genocide victims memorial sites.--Funds appropriated by 
        this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance 
        for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' may be made available as 
        contributions to establish and maintain memorial sites of 
        genocide, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.
            (3) Additional authorities.--Of the amounts made available 
        by title I of this Act under the heading ``Diplomatic and 
        Consular Programs'', up to $500,000 may be made available for 
        grants pursuant to section 504 of Public Law 95-426 (22 U.S.C. 
        2656d), including to facilitate collaboration with indigenous 
        communities, and up to $1,000,000 may be made available for 
        grants to carry out the activities of the Cultural Antiquities 
        Task Force.
            (4) Authority.--The USAID Administrator may use funds 
        appropriated by this Act under title III to make innovation 
        incentive awards:  Provided, That each individual award may not 
        exceed $100,000:  Provided further, That no more than 10 such 
        awards may be made during fiscal year 2017:  Provided further, 
        That for purposes of this paragraph the term ``innovation 
        incentive award'' means the provision of funding on a 
        competitive basis that--
                    (A) encourages and rewards the development of 
                solutions for a particular, well-defined problem 
                related to the alleviation of poverty; or
                    (B) helps identify and promote a broad range of 
                ideas and practices facilitating further development of 
                an idea or practice by third parties.
            (5) Authorities for the peace corps, inter-american 
        foundation and united states african development foundation.--
        Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions of this 
        or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
        authorizing or making appropriations for the Department of 
        State, foreign operations, and related programs, shall not be 
        construed to prohibit activities authorized by or conducted 
        under the Peace Corps Act, the Inter-American Foundation Act or 
        the African Development Foundation Act:  Provided, That prior 
        to conducting activities in a country for which assistance is 
        prohibited, the agency shall consult with the Committees on 
        Appropriations and report to such Committees within 15 days of 
        taking such action.
    (e) Partner Vetting.--Funds appropriated by this Act or in titles I 
through IV of prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs may be used by the 
Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator, as appropriate, to 
support the continued implementation of the Partner Vetting System 
(PVS) pilot program:  Provided, That the Secretary of State and USAID 
Administrator may initiate a partner vetting program to meet 
unanticipated security requirements, or to make significant 
modifications to any such existing program, only following consultation 
with the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That the 
first through the third provisos of section 7034(e) of the Department 
of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2016 (division K of Public Law 114-113) shall continue in effect during 
fiscal year 2017:  Provided further, That the Secretary of State and 
the USAID Administrator shall continue to provide a direct vetting 
option for prime awardees.
    (f) Contingencies.--During fiscal year 2017, the President may use 
up to $125,000,000 under the authority of section 451 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (g) International Child Abductions.--The Secretary of State should 
withhold funds appropriated under title III of this Act for assistance 
for the central government of any country that is not taking 
appropriate steps to comply with the Convention on the Civil Aspects of 
International Child Abductions, done at the Hague on October 25, 1980:  
Provided, That the Secretary shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations within 15 days of withholding funds under this 
subsection.
    (h) Reports Repealed.--
            (1) Annual report on the israeli-palestinian peace, 
        reconciliation and democracy fund.--Section 10 of the 
        Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-446; 22 
        U.S.C. 2378b note) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (b); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
                (b).
            (2) Annual report on assistance provided for interdiction 
        actions of foreign countries.--Section 1012 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (22 U.S.C. 2291-
        4) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (c); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
                (c).
            (3) Reports relating to sudan.--The Sudan Peace Act (Public 
        Law 107-245; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended--
                    (A) by striking section 8; and
                    (B) in section 11, by striking subsection (b).
            (4) Annual report on outstanding expropriation claims.--
        Section 527 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
        Years 1994 and 1995 (Public Law 103-236; 22 U.S.C. 2370a) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (f); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (g), (h), and (i) 
                as subsections (f), (g), and (h), respectively.
    (i) Transfer of Funds for Extraordinary Protection.--The Secretary 
of State may transfer to, and merge with, funds under the heading 
``Protection of Foreign Missions and Officials'' unobligated balances 
of expired funds appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic and 
Consular Programs'' for fiscal year 2017, except for funds designated 
for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, at no later than the end of the fifth fiscal year 
after the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the 
purposes for which appropriated:  Provided, That not more than 
$50,000,000 may be transferred.
    (j) Protections and Remedies for Employees of Diplomatic Missions 
and International Organizations.--Section 7034(k) of the Department of 
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect during 
fiscal year 2017.
    (k) Additional Authorities.--
            (1) Passport fees.--Section 1(b)(2) of the Passport Act of 
        June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C. 214(b)(2)) shall be applied by 
        substituting ``September 30, 2017'' for ``September 30, 2010''.
            (2) Accountability review boards.--The authority provided 
        by section 301(a)(3) of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and 
        Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 4831(a)(3)) shall remain 
        in effect for facilities in Afghanistan through September 30, 
        2017, except that the notification and reporting requirements 
        contained in such section shall include the Committees on 
        Appropriations.
            (3) Incentives for critical posts.--The authority contained 
        in section 1115(d) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 
        (Public Law 111-32) shall remain in effect through September 
        30, 2017.
            (4) Foreign service officer annuitant waiver.--Section 
        824(g) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4064(g)) 
        shall be applied by substituting ``September 30, 2017'' for 
        ``October 1, 2010'' in paragraph (2).
            (5) Department of state civil service annuitant waiver.--
        Section 61(a) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 
        1956 (22 U.S.C. 2733(a)) shall be applied by substituting 
        ``September 30, 2017'' for ``October 1, 2010'' in paragraph 
        (2).
            (6) USAID civil service annuitant waiver.--Section 
        625(j)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
        2385(j)(1)) shall be applied by substituting ``September 30, 
        2017'' for ``October 1, 2010'' in subparagraph (B).
            (7) Overseas pay comparability and limitation.--
                    (A) Subject to the limitation described in 
                subparagraph (B), the authority provided by section 
                1113 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 
                (Public Law 111-32; 123 Stat. 1904) shall remain in 
                effect through September 30, 2017.
                    (B) The authority described in subparagraph (A) may 
                not be used to pay an eligible member of the Foreign 
                Service (as defined in section 1113(b) of the 
                Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009) a locality-based 
                comparability payment (stated as a percentage) that 
                exceeds two-thirds of the amount of the locality-based 
                comparability payment (stated as a percentage) that 
                would be payable to such member under section 5304 of 
                title 5, United States Code, if such member's official 
                duty station were in the District of Columbia.
            (8) Categorical eligibility.--The Foreign Operations, 
        Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 
        (Public Law 101-167) is amended--
                    (A) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
                            (i) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``and 
                        2016'' and inserting ``2016, and 2017'';
                            (ii) in subsection (e), by striking 
                        ``2016'' each place it appears and inserting 
                        ``2017''; and
                    (B) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in 
                subsection (b)(2), by striking ``2016'' and inserting 
                ``2017''.
            (9) Inspector general annuitant waiver.--The authorities 
        provided in section 1015(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
        Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212) shall remain in effect through 
        September 30, 2017.
            (10) Codification of consular immunity.--Section 4 of 
        Public Law 95-393 is amended by inserting ``(a)'' at the 
        beginning and inserting the text from section 7056 of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 114-113) as 
        subsection (b).
            (11) United states advisory commission on public 
        diplomacy.--Section 1334 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
        Restructuring Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6553) shall be applied by 
        substituting ``September 30, 2017'' for ``October 1, 2015''.
            (12) Afghan allies protection act.--Section 602(b)(3)(F) of 
        the Afghan Allies Protection Act, 2009 (division F of Public 
        Law 111-8), as amended, is further amended by--
                    (A) substituting ``11,000'' for ``7,000'' in the 
                matter preceding clause (i); and
                    (B) substituting ``December 31, 2017'' for 
                ``December 31, 2016'' in clauses (i) and (ii).
            (13) International expositions.--Notwithstanding section 
        204 of the Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign 
        Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001 
        (appendix G of Public Law 106-113), funds made available under 
        the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' in this Act 
        and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
        State, foreign operations, and related programs or otherwise 
        available to the Department of State may be made available for 
        United States participation in international fairs and 
        expositions abroad occurring prior to September 30, 2017:  
        Provided, That the authority made available pursuant to this 
        subparagraph shall be subject to the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
            (14) Extension of war reserves stockpile authority.--
                    (A) Section 12001(d) of the Department of Defense 
                Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-287; 118 Stat. 
                1011) is amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting 
                ``2018''.
                    (B) Section 514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance 
                Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by 
                striking ``and 2017'' and inserting ``2017, and 2018''.
            (15) Quorum requirement.--Section 1 of Public Law 106-46 
        (12 U.S.C. 635a note) is amended by striking ``July 21, 1999, 
        and ends on December 2, 1999'' and inserting ``October 1, 2016, 
        and ends on September 30, 2019'':  Provided, That the amendment 
        made pursuant to this subparagraph to such law shall take 
        effect upon enactment of this Act.
            (16) Modification of life insurance supplement.--Section 
        415(a)(1) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
        3975(a)(1)) is amended by adding--``The group life insurance 
        supplement employee benefit paid or scheduled to be paid 
        pursuant to this section should not be used to reduce any other 
        payment to which a recipient is otherwise eligible under 
        Federal law.''.
    (l) Department of State Working Capital Fund.--Funds appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available to the Department of State for 
payments to the Working Capital Fund may only be used for the service 
centers included in Appendix 1 of the Congressional Budget 
Justification, Department of State, Diplomatic Engagement, Fiscal Year 
2017:  Provided, That the amounts for such service centers shall be the 
amounts included in such budget except as provided in section 7015(b) 
of this Act:  Provided further, That Federal agency components shall be 
charged only for their direct usage of each Working Capital Fund 
service:  Provided further, That Federal agency components may only pay 
for Working Capital Fund services that are consistent with the 
component's purpose and authorities:  Provided further, That the 
Working Capital Fund shall be paid in advance or reimbursed at rates 
which will return the full cost of each service.
    (m) Humanitarian Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act that 
are available for monitoring and evaluation of assistance under the 
headings ``International Disaster Assistance'' and ``Migration and 
Refugee Assistance'' shall, as appropriate, be made available for the 
regular collection of feedback obtained directly from beneficiaries on 
the quality and relevance of such assistance:  Provided, That the 
Department of State and USAID shall conduct regular oversight to ensure 
that such feedback is collected and used by implementing partners to 
maximize the cost-effectiveness and utility of such assistance, and 
require such partners that receive funds under such headings to 
establish procedures for collecting and responding to such feedback and 
inform the Department of State or USAID, as appropriate, of such 
procedures.
    (n) HIV/AIDS Working Capital Fund.--Funds available in the HIV/AIDS 
Working Capital Fund established pursuant to section 525(b)(1) of the 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-477) may be made available for 
pharmaceuticals and other products for other global health and child 
survivial activities to the same extent as HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and 
other products, subject to the terms and conditions in such section:  
Provided, That the authority in section 525(b)(5) of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriation Act, 
2005 (Public Law 108-477) shall be exercised by the Assistant 
Administrator for Global Health, USAID, with respect to funds deposited 
for such non-HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and other products, and shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall 
include in the congressional budget justification an accounting of 
budgetary resources, disbursements, balances, and reimbursements 
related to such fund.
    (o) Loans and Enterprise Funds.--
            (1) Loan guarantees.--Funds appropriated under the headings 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
        and Central Asia'' by this Act and prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs may be made available for the costs, as 
        defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
        of loan guarantees for Jordan, Ukraine, Iraq, and Tunisia, 
        which are authorized to be provided:  Provided, That amounts 
        made available under this paragraph for the costs of such 
        guarantees shall not be considered assistance for the purposes 
        of provisions of law limiting assistance to a country.
            (2) Direct loans.--During fiscal year 2017, direct loans 
        under section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act may be made 
        available for Iraq, gross obligations for the principal amounts 
        of which shall not exceed $2,700,000,000:  Provided, That funds 
        appropriated under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' in title VIII of this Act and title VIII of prior 
        Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs that are designated by the 
        Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
        Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
        Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, may be made 
        available for the costs, as defined in section 502 of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans, except that 
        such funds may not be derived from amounts specifically 
        designated for countries other than Iraq:  Provided further, 
        That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
        shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
        Act of 1974, and may include the costs of selling, reducing, or 
        cancelling any amounts owed to the United States or any agency 
        of the United States by Iraq:  Provided further, That the 
        Government of the United States may charge fees for such loans, 
        which shall be collected from borrowers in accordance with 
        section 502(7) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
        Provided further, That no funds made available for assistance 
        for Iraq under this or any other Act may be used for payment of 
        any fees associated with such loans:  Provided further, That 
        applicable provisions of section 3 of the Arms Export Control 
        Act relating to restrictions on transfers, re-transfers and 
        end-use shall apply to defense articles and services purchased 
        with such loans:  Provided further, That in consultation with 
        the Government of Iraq, special emphasis shall be placed on 
        assistance to covered groups (as defined in section 
        1223(e)(2)(D) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92)) with loans made available 
        pursuant to this paragraph:  Provided further, That such loans 
        shall be repaid in not more than 12 years, including a grace 
        period of up to 1 year on repayment of principal.
            (3) Enterprise funds.--Funds appropriated under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act may be made available to 
        establish and operate one or more enterprise funds for Egypt 
        and Tunisia:  Provided, That the first, third and fifth 
        provisos under section 7041(b) of the Department of State, 
        Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
        2012 (division I of Public Law 112-74) shall apply to funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
        Fund'' for an enterprise fund or funds to the same extent and 
        in the same manner as such provision of law applied to funds 
        made available under such section (except that the clause 
        excluding subsection (d)(3) of section 201 of the SEED Act 
        shall not apply):  Provided further, That in addition to the 
        previous proviso, the authorities in the matter preceding the 
        first proviso of such section may apply to any such enterprise 
        fund or funds:  Provided further, That the authority of any 
        such enterprise fund or funds to provide assistance shall cease 
        to be effective on December 31, 2027.
            (4) Designation requirement.--Funds made available pursuant 
        to paragraphs (1) and (2) from prior Acts making appropriations 
        for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
        programs that were previously designated by the Congress for 
        Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
        pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
        Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the 
        Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
        Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of such Act.
            (5) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available 
        pursuant to the authorities of this subsection shall be subject 
        to prior consultation with the appropriate congressional 
        committees, and subject to the regular notification procedures 
        of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (p) Small Grants and Entities.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', 
        and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', not 
        less than $50,000,000 shall be made available for the Small 
        Grants Program pursuant to section 7080 of the Department of 
        State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
        Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235), as amended, which 
        may remain available until September 30, 2021.
            (2) For the purposes of section 7080 of division J of 
        Public Law 113-235, ``eligible entities'' shall be defined, in 
        this fiscal year and each fiscal year hereafter, as small 
        local, international, and United States-based nongovernmental 
        organizations, educational institutions, and other small 
        entities that have received less than a total of $5,000,000 
        from USAID over the previous 5 fiscal years:  Provided, That 
        departments or centers of such educational institutions may be 
        considered individually in determining such eligibility.
    (q) Pilot Project.--The USAID Administrator, following consultation 
with the Committees on Appropriations, shall implement a pilot project 
with funds appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Global Health 
Programs'' to leverage public and private capital to expand delivery of 
interventions for maternal and child health.
    (r) Definitions.--
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--Unless otherwise 
        defined in this Act, for purposes of this Act the term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committees 
        on Appropriations and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
        Committees on Appropriations and Foreign Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives.
            (2) Funds appropriated by this act and prior acts.--Unless 
        otherwise defined in this Act, for purposes of this Act the 
        term ``funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs'' means funds that remain available for 
        obligation, and have not expired.
            (3) International financial institutions.--In this Act 
        ``international financial institutions'' means the 
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
        International Development Association, the International 
        Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the 
        International Monetary Fund, the Asian Development Bank, the 
        Asian Development Fund, the Inter-American Investment 
        Corporation, the North American Development Bank, the European 
        Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the African 
        Development Bank, the African Development Fund, and the 
        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency.
            (4) Southern kordofan reference.--Any reference to Southern 
        Kordofan in this or any other Act making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        shall be deemed to include portions of Western Kordofan that 
        were previously part of Southern Kordofan prior to the 2013 
        division of Southern Kordofan.
            (5) USAID.--In this Act, the term ``USAID'' means the 
        United States Agency for International Development.
            (6) Extremist organizations and extremism.--In this Act--
                    (A) the term ``extremist organization'' means the 
                Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL); 
                organizations affiliated with ISIL; a foreign 
                organization that is determined to be engaged in 
                terrorist activity, as defined in section 212(a)(3)(B) 
                of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182); 
                and other entities designated as foreign terrorist 
                organizations pursuant to section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
                    (B) the term ``extremist'' means an individual 
                affiliated with an extremist organization, as defined 
                in subparagraph (A); and
                    (C) the term ``extremism'' means the advocacy or 
                use of violence by such organizations or individuals to 
                achieve political or religions goals.
            (7) Clarification.--Unless otherwise provided for in this 
        Act, for the purposes of this Act the terms ``under this 
        heading'', ``under the heading'', or ``under the headings'' 
        means funds appropriated or otherwise made available under such 
        heading or headings in all titles of this Act:  Provided, That 
        the term ``under the heading in this title'' means funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available only in such title.
            (8) Spend plan.--In this Act, the term ``spend plan'' means 
        a plan for the utilization of funds appropriated for a 
        particular entity, country, program, purpose, or account and 
        which shall include, as appropriate, a description of--
                    (A) how such funds will be used, including by 
                category such as personnel, training, technical, 
                infrastructure, and commodities, to achieve realistic 
                and sustainable goals, and a timeline for achieving 
                such goals;
                    (B) implementing partners, including by category 
                such as government ministries, nongovernmental 
                organizations, and contractors, to the extent known;
                    (C) amounts and sources of funds by account;
                    (D) criteria for measuring progress in achieving 
                such goals; and
                    (E) how such funds will complement other ongoing or 
                planned programs.
    (s) Concurrent Millennium Challenge Corporation Compacts.--
            (1) Section 609 of the Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (22 
        U.S.C. 7708) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (k) by striking the first 
                sentence; and
                    (B) by adding after subsection (k) the following 
                new subsection:
    ``(l) Concurrent Compacts.--An eligible country and the United 
States that have entered into and have in effect a Compact under this 
section may enter into and have in effect at the same time not more 
than one additional Compact in accordance with the requirements of this 
title if--
            ``(1) one or both of the Compacts are or will be for the 
        purposes of economic integration, increased regional trade, or 
        cross-border collaborations; and
            ``(2) the Board determines that the country is making 
        considerable and demonstrable progress in implementing the 
        terms of any existing Compacts and supplementary agreements 
        thereto, and has sustained performance against the eligibility 
        criteria in section 7706(b) of this title since being selected 
        for such existing Compact.''.
            (2) The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall apply with 
        respect to Compacts entered into under the Millennium Challenge 
        Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) before, on, or after the 
        date of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Section 613(b)(2)(A) of the Millennium Challenge Act of 
        2003 (22 U.S.C. 7712(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``the'' 
        before ``Compact'' and inserting ``any''.
            (4) Section 607 of the Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (22 
        U.S.C. 7706) is amended:
                    (A) in subsection (a) by adding after the second 
                sentence the following new sentence:
            ``In determining whether such country is eligible for a 
        subsequent, non-concurrent Millennium Challenge Compact, such 
        determination shall also be based on significantly improved 
        performance across the eligibility criteria in subsection (b), 
        compared to such country's performance against such eligibility 
        criteria when selected for a preceding compact, to be defined 
        pursuant to section 7707(b) of this title.'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1)(D), by striking ``and'';
                    (C) in subsection (b)(1)(E), by inserting ``and'' 
                after the semicolon, and adding the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(F) the quality of the civil society enabling 
                environment;'';
                    (D) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as 
                subsections (e) and (f), respectively; and
                    (E) by inserting after subsection (c) the following 
                new subsection:
    ``(d) Reporting on Treatment of Civil Society.--Before the Board 
selects an eligible country for a Compact under section 607(c), the 
Corporation shall provide to the Board information on the country's 
treatment of civil society. The information shall include an assessment 
and analysis of--
            ``(1) any relevant laws governing the establishment, legal 
        status, or activities of a civil society organization, 
        including laws intended to limit the activities of civil 
        society organizations; and
            ``(2) laws regulating freedom of expression and peaceful 
        assembly, including usage of the Internet.''.

                     arab league boycott of israel

    Sec. 7035.  It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Arab League boycott of Israel, and the secondary 
        boycott of American firms that have commercial ties with 
        Israel, is an impediment to peace in the region and to United 
        States investment and trade in the Middle East and North 
        Africa;
            (2) the Arab League boycott, which was regrettably 
        reinstated in 1997, should be immediately and publicly 
        terminated, and the Central Office for the Boycott of Israel 
        immediately disbanded;
            (3) all Arab League states should normalize relations with 
        their neighbor Israel;
            (4) the President and the Secretary of State should 
        continue to vigorously oppose the Arab League boycott of Israel 
        and find concrete steps to demonstrate that opposition by, for 
        example, taking into consideration the participation of any 
        recipient country in the boycott when determining to sell 
        weapons to said country; and
            (5) the President should report to Congress annually on 
        specific steps being taken by the United States to encourage 
        Arab League states to normalize their relations with Israel to 
        bring about the termination of the Arab League boycott of 
        Israel, including those to encourage allies and trading 
        partners of the United States to enact laws prohibiting 
        businesses from complying with the boycott and penalizing 
        businesses that do comply.

                         palestinian statehood

    Sec. 7036. (a) Limitation on Assistance.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be provided to 
support a Palestinian state unless the Secretary of State determines 
and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that--
            (1) the governing entity of a new Palestinian state--
                    (A) has demonstrated a firm commitment to peaceful 
                co-existence with the State of Israel; and
                    (B) is taking appropriate measures to counter 
                terrorism and terrorist financing in the West Bank and 
                Gaza, including the dismantling of terrorist 
                infrastructures, and is cooperating with appropriate 
                Israeli and other appropriate security organizations; 
                and
            (2) the Palestinian Authority (or the governing entity of a 
        new Palestinian state) is working with other countries in the 
        region to vigorously pursue efforts to establish a just, 
        lasting, and comprehensive peace in the Middle East that will 
        enable Israel and an independent Palestinian state to exist 
        within the context of full and normal relationships, which 
        should include--
                    (A) termination of all claims or states of 
                belligerency;
                    (B) respect for and acknowledgment of the 
                sovereignty, territorial integrity, and political 
                independence of every state in the area through 
                measures including the establishment of demilitarized 
                zones;
                    (C) their right to live in peace within secure and 
                recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of 
                force;
                    (D) freedom of navigation through international 
                waterways in the area; and
                    (E) a framework for achieving a just settlement of 
                the refugee problem.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
governing entity should enact a constitution assuring the rule of law, 
an independent judiciary, and respect for human rights for its 
citizens, and should enact other laws and regulations assuring 
transparent and accountable governance.
    (c) Waiver.--The President may waive subsection (a) if the 
President determines that it is important to the national security 
interest of the United States to do so.
    (d) Exemption.--The restriction in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to assistance intended to help reform the Palestinian Authority and 
affiliated institutions, or the governing entity, in order to help meet 
the requirements of subsection (a), consistent with the provisions of 
section 7040 of this Act (``Limitation on Assistance for the 
Palestinian Authority'').

           restrictions concerning the palestinian authority

    Sec. 7037.  None of the funds appropriated under titles II through 
VI of this Act may be obligated or expended to create in any part of 
Jerusalem a new office of any department or agency of the United States 
Government for the purpose of conducting official United States 
Government business with the Palestinian Authority over Gaza and 
Jericho or any successor Palestinian governing entity provided for in 
the Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles:  Provided, That this 
restriction shall not apply to the acquisition of additional space for 
the existing Consulate General in Jerusalem:  Provided further, That 
meetings between officers and employees of the United States and 
officials of the Palestinian Authority, or any successor Palestinian 
governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration of 
Principles, for the purpose of conducting official United States 
Government business with such authority should continue to take place 
in locations other than Jerusalem:  Provided further, That as has been 
true in the past, officers and employees of the United States 
Government may continue to meet in Jerusalem on other subjects with 
Palestinians (including those who now occupy positions in the 
Palestinian Authority), have social contacts, and have incidental 
discussions.

 prohibition on assistance to the palestinian broadcasting corporation

    Sec. 7038.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to provide equipment, technical 
support, consulting services, or any other form of assistance to the 
Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.

                 assistance for the west bank and gaza

    Sec. 7039. (a) Oversight.--For fiscal year 2017, 30 days prior to 
the initial obligation of funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza 
Program, the Secretary of State shall certify to the Committees on 
Appropriations that procedures have been established to assure the 
Comptroller General of the United States will have access to 
appropriate United States financial information in order to review the 
uses of United States assistance for the Program funded under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the West Bank and Gaza.
    (b) Vetting.--Prior to the obligation of funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the 
West Bank and Gaza, the Secretary of State shall take all appropriate 
steps to ensure that such assistance is not provided to or through any 
individual, private or government entity, or educational institution 
that the Secretary knows or has reason to believe advocates, plans, 
sponsors, engages in, or has engaged in, terrorist activity nor, with 
respect to private entities or educational institutions, those that 
have as a principal officer of the entity's governing board or 
governing board of trustees any individual that has been determined to 
be involved in, or advocating terrorist activity or determined to be a 
member of a designated foreign terrorist organization:  Provided, That 
the Secretary of State shall, as appropriate, establish procedures 
specifying the steps to be taken in carrying out this subsection and 
shall terminate assistance to any individual, entity, or educational 
institution which the Secretary has determined to be involved in or 
advocating terrorist activity.
    (c) Prohibition.--
            (1) Recognition of acts of terrorism.--None of the funds 
        appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act for 
        assistance under the West Bank and Gaza Program may be made 
        available for the purpose of recognizing or otherwise honoring 
        individuals who commit, or have committed acts of terrorism.
            (2) Security assistance and reporting requirement.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
        made available by this or prior appropriations Acts, including 
        funds made available by transfer, may be made available for 
        obligation for security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza 
        until the Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations on the benchmarks that have been established for 
        security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza and reports on 
        the extent of Palestinian compliance with such benchmarks.
    (d) Audits by the United States Agency for International 
Development.--
            (1) The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development shall ensure that Federal or non-
        Federal audits of all contractors and grantees, and significant 
        subcontractors and sub-grantees, under the West Bank and Gaza 
        Program, are conducted at least on an annual basis to ensure, 
        among other things, compliance with this section.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act up to $500,000 
        may be used by the Office of Inspector General of the United 
        States Agency for International Development for audits, 
        inspections, and other activities in furtherance of the 
        requirements of this subsection:  Provided, That such funds are 
        in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes.
    (e) Comptroller General of the United States Audit.--Subsequent to 
the certification specified in subsection (a), the Comptroller General 
of the United States shall conduct an audit and an investigation of the 
treatment, handling, and uses of all funds for the bilateral West Bank 
and Gaza Program, including all funds provided as cash transfer 
assistance, in fiscal year 2017 under the heading ``Economic Support 
Fund'', and such audit shall address--
            (1) the extent to which such Program complies with the 
        requirements of subsections (b) and (c); and
            (2) an examination of all programs, projects, and 
        activities carried out under such Program, including both 
        obligations and expenditures.
    (f) Notification Procedures.--Funds made available in this Act for 
West Bank and Gaza shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Report.--Not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations updating the report contained in section 2106 of chapter 
2 of title II of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for 
Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, 2005 (Public Law 
109-13).

         limitation on assistance for the palestinian authority

    Sec. 7040. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be obligated or 
expended with respect to providing funds to the Palestinian Authority.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) shall not 
apply if the President certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives, the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the 
Committees on Appropriations that waiving such prohibition is important 
to the national security interest of the United States.
    (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a period of 6 months 
at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months after the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Report.--Whenever the waiver authority pursuant to subsection 
(b) is exercised, the President shall submit a report to the Committees 
on Appropriations detailing the justification for the waiver, the 
purposes for which the funds will be spent, and the accounting 
procedures in place to ensure that the funds are properly disbursed:  
Provided, That the report shall also detail the steps the Palestinian 
Authority has taken to arrest terrorists, confiscate weapons and 
dismantle the terrorist infrastructure.
    (e) Certification.--If the President exercises the waiver authority 
under subsection (b), the Secretary of State must certify and report to 
the Committees on Appropriations prior to the obligation of funds that 
the Palestinian Authority has established a single treasury account for 
all Palestinian Authority financing and all financing mechanisms flow 
through this account, no parallel financing mechanisms exist outside of 
the Palestinian Authority treasury account, and there is a single 
comprehensive civil service roster and payroll, and the Palestinian 
Authority is acting to counter incitement of violence against Israelis 
and is supporting activities aimed at promoting peace, coexistence, and 
security cooperation with Israel.
    (f) Prohibition to Hamas and the Palestine Liberation 
Organization.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated in titles III through VI 
        of this Act may be obligated for salaries of personnel of the 
        Palestinian Authority located in Gaza or may be obligated or 
        expended for assistance to Hamas or any entity effectively 
        controlled by Hamas, any power-sharing government of which 
        Hamas is a member, or that results from an agreement with Hamas 
        and over which Hamas exercises undue influence.
            (2) Notwithstanding the limitation of paragraph (1), 
        assistance may be provided to a power-sharing government only 
        if the President certifies and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such government, including all of its 
        ministers or such equivalent, has publicly accepted and is 
        complying with the principles contained in section 620K(b)(1) 
        (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended.
            (3) The President may exercise the authority in section 
        620K(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as added by the 
        Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-446) 
        with respect to this subsection.
            (4) Whenever the certification pursuant to paragraph (2) is 
        exercised, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
        Committees on Appropriations within 120 days of the 
        certification and every quarter thereafter on whether such 
        government, including all of its ministers or such equivalent 
        are continuing to comply with the principles contained in 
        section 620K(b)(1) (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961, as amended:  Provided, That the report shall also detail 
        the amount, purposes and delivery mechanisms for any assistance 
        provided pursuant to the abovementioned certification and a 
        full accounting of any direct support of such government.
            (5) None of the funds appropriated under titles III through 
        VI of this Act may be obligated for assistance for the 
        Palestine Liberation Organization.

                      middle east and north africa

    Sec. 7041. (a) Egypt.--
            (1) Certification and report.--Funds appropriated by this 
        Act that are available for assistance for Egypt may be made 
        available notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        restricting assistance for Egypt, except for section 620M of 
        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and may only be made 
        available for assistance for the Government of Egypt if the 
        Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such government is--
                    (A) sustaining the strategic relationship with the 
                United States; and
                    (B) meeting its obligations under the 1979 Egypt-
                Israel Peace Treaty.
            (2) Economic support fund.--
                    (A) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', up to 
                $75,000,000 may be made available for assistance for 
                Egypt, of which not less than $35,000,000 should be 
                made available for higher education programs including 
                not less than $10,000,000 for scholarships for Egyptian 
                students with high financial need to attend not-for-
                profit institutions of higher education that meet 
                standards equivalent to those required for United 
                States institutional accreditation by a regional 
                accrediting agency recognized by the United States 
                Department of Education:  Provided, That such funds may 
                be made available for democracy programs and for 
                development programs in the Sinai:  Provided further, 
                That such funds may not be made available for cash 
                transfer assistance or budget support unless the 
                Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
                appropriate congressional committees that the 
                Government of Egypt is taking consistent and effective 
                steps to stabilize the economy and implement market-
                based economic reforms.
                    (B) Withholding.--The Secretary of State shall 
                withhold from obligation funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for 
                assistance for Egypt, an amount of such funds that the 
                Secretary determines to be equivalent to that expended 
                by the United States Government for bail, and by 
                nongovernmental organizations for legal and court fees, 
                associated with democracy-related trials in Egypt until 
                the Secretary certifies and reports to the Committees 
                on Appropriations that the Government of Egypt has 
                dismissed the convictions issued by the Cairo Criminal 
                Court on June 4, 2013, in ``Public Prosecution Case No. 
                1110 for the Year 2012''.
            (3) Cooperation determination.--Notwithstanding section 
        7019 of this Act or specifically designated funding levels for 
        assistance for Egypt in prior Acts making appropriations for 
        the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
        programs, funds appropriated by such Acts under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' that remain available for assistance 
        for Egypt may be reprogrammed for programs outside of Egypt if 
        the Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees 
        on Appropriations that the Government of Egypt is prohibiting, 
        or otherwise interfering with, the conduct or operations of 
        programs supported by such funds:  Provided, That the Secretary 
        of State shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations 
        prior to exercising such authority.
            (4) Foreign military financing program.--
                    (A) Certification.--Of the funds appropriated by 
                this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
                Program'', $1,300,000,000, to remain available until 
                September 30, 2018, may be made available for 
                assistance for Egypt:  Provided, That 15 percent of 
                such funds shall be withheld from obligation until the 
                Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that the Government of 
                Egypt is taking effective steps to--
                            (i) advance democracy and human rights in 
                        Egypt, including to govern democratically and 
                        protect religious minorities and the rights of 
                        women, which are in addition to steps taken 
                        during the previous calendar year for such 
                        purposes;
                            (ii) implement reforms that protect 
                        freedoms of expression, association, and 
                        peaceful assembly, including the ability of 
                        civil society organizations, human rights 
                        defenders, and the media to function without 
                        interference;
                            (iii) release political prisoners and 
                        provide detainees with due process of law;
                            (iv) hold Egyptian security forces 
                        accountable, including officers credibly 
                        alleged to have violated human rights;
                            (v) investigate and prosecute cases of 
                        extrajudicial killings and forced 
                        disappearances, including the torture and 
                        murder of Giulio Regeni, a University of 
                        Cambridge doctoral student; and
                            (vi) provide regular access for United 
                        States officials to monitor such assistance in 
                        areas where the assistance is used:
                  Provided further, That such funds may be transferred 
                to an interest bearing account in the Federal Reserve 
                Bank of New York, following consultation with the 
                Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That 
                the certification requirement of this paragraph shall 
                not apply to funds appropriated by this Act under such 
                heading for counterterrorism, border security, and 
                nonproliferation programs for Egypt.
                    (B) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
                certification requirement in subparagraph (A) if the 
                Secretary determines and reports to the Committees on 
                Appropriations that to do so is important to the 
                national security interest of the United States, and 
                submits a report to such Committees containing a 
                detailed justification for the use of such waiver and 
                the reasons why any of the requirements of subparagraph 
                (A) cannot be met.
            (5) Oversight and consultation requirements.--
                    (A) The Secretary of State shall take all 
                practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in 
                place for monitoring, oversight, and control of funds 
                made available by this subsection for assistance for 
                Egypt.
                    (B) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
                Act, the Secretary shall consult with the Committees on 
                Appropriations on any plan to restructure military 
                assistance for Egypt.
    (b) Iran.--
            (1) Funding.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', ``Economic 
        Support Fund'', and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
        Demining and Related Programs'' shall be used by the Secretary 
        of State--
                    (A) to support the United States policy to prevent 
                Iran from achieving the capability to produce or 
                otherwise obtain a nuclear weapon;
                    (B) to support an expeditious response to any 
                violation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or 
                United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231;
                    (C) to support the implementation and enforcement 
                of sanctions against Iran for support of terrorism, 
                human rights abuses, and ballistic missile and weapons 
                proliferation; and
                    (D) for democracy programs for Iran, to be 
                administered by the Assistant Secretary for Near 
                Eastern Affairs, Department of State, in consultation 
                with the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human 
                Rights, and Labor, Department of State.
            (2) Continuation of prohibition.--The terms and conditions 
        of paragraph (2) of section 7041(c) in division I of Public Law 
        112-74 shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2017.
            (3) Reports.--
                    (A) The Secretary of State shall submit to the 
                Committees on Appropriations the semi-annual report 
                required by section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement 
                Review Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 2160e(d)(4)).
                    (B) Not later than 180 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall 
                submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
                report on the status of the implementation and 
                enforcement of bilateral United States and multilateral 
                sanctions against Iran and actions taken by the United 
                States and the international community to enforce such 
                sanctions against Iran:  Provided, That the report 
                shall also include any entities involved in providing 
                significant support for the development of a ballistic 
                missile by the Government of Iran after October 1, 
                2015, and note whether such entities are currently 
                under United States sanctions:  Provided further, That 
                such report shall be submitted in an unclassified form, 
                but may contain a classified annex if necessary.
                    (C) Not later than 30 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall 
                submit to Congress a report that includes, with respect 
                to a transfer to Iran of $1,700,000,000 that was 
                overseen by the Department of the Treasury and 
                announced on January 17, 2016--
                            (i) a description of the means of transfer 
                        of the funds;
                            (ii) the name and location of each 
                        financial institution the funds passed through 
                        or were withdrawn from;
                            (iii) a description of the currency 
                        denominations used in the transfer and the 
                        method of transfer, including third-party and 
                        third-country facilitators;
                            (iv) the name and location of each 
                        financial institution holding the funds as of 
                        the date of the report;
                            (v) the date on which the Department of the 
                        Treasury was granted the authority to process 
                        the transfer;
                            (vi) an assessment and determination of 
                        whether the $1,300,000,000 paid in interest, 
                        which is in addition to the $400,000,000 amount 
                        initially in dispute, is a normal amount for an 
                        arbitration panel to award; and
                            (vii) a determination of whether the 
                        Department of the Treasury was involved in the 
                        international arbitration relating to the 
                        release of any United States citizens formerly 
                        held prisoner in Iran:
                  Provided, That such report shall be submitted in 
                unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Iraq.--
            (1) Purposes.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be made 
        available for assistance for Iraq to promote governance, 
        security, and internal and regional stability, including in the 
        Kurdistan Region of Iraq and other areas impacted by the 
        conflict in Syria, and among religious and ethnic minority 
        populations in Iraq.
            (2) Explosive ordnance disposal programs.--Funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Nonproliferation, 
        Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'' shall be made 
        available for explosive ordnance disposal programs in areas 
        liberated from extremist organizations in Iraq:  Provided, That 
        such programs should utilize local organizations and 
        individuals to the maximum extent practicable.
            (3) Kurdistan regional government.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                headings ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement'' and ``Foreign Military Financing 
                Program'' that are available for assistance for Iraq 
                shall be made available to enhance the capacity of 
                Kurdistan Regional Government security services and for 
                security programs in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq to 
                address requirements arising from the violence in Syria 
                and Iraq:  Provided, That the Secretary of State shall 
                consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
                obligating such funds.
                    (B) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                headings ``International Disaster Assistance'' and 
                ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' should be made 
                available for assistance for the Kurdistan Region of 
                Iraq to address the needs of internally displaced 
                persons (IDPs) and refugees:  Provided, That funds 
                appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic 
                Support Fund'' shall be made available for programs to 
                mitigate the impact of such IDPs and refugees in such 
                Region, including for assistance for communities 
                hosting such persons.
            (4) War victims.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
        $7,500,000 shall be made available for the Marla Ruzicka Iraqi 
        War Victims Fund.
    (d) Jordan.--
            (1) Funding levels.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        under titles III and IV, not less than $1,000,000,000 shall be 
        made available for assistance for Jordan.
            (2) Response to the syrian crisis.--Funds appropriated by 
        this Act shall be made available for programs to implement the 
        Jordan Compact Action Plan and the Jordan Response Plan for the 
        Syria Crisis 2016-2018, including assistance for host 
        communities in Jordan:  Provided, That such funds are in 
        addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes.
    (e) Lebanon.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        may be made available for the Lebanese Internal Security Forces 
        (ISF) or the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) if the ISF or the LAF 
        is controlled by a foreign terrorist organization, as 
        designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
            (2) Consultation requirement.--Funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the headings ``International Narcotics Control and 
        Law Enforcement'' and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' 
        that are available for assistance for Lebanon may be made 
        available for programs and equipment for the ISF and the LAF to 
        address security and stability requirements in Lebanon, 
        including in areas affected by the conflict in Syria, following 
        consultation with the appropriate congressional committees.
            (3) Economic support fund.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are available 
        for assistance for Lebanon may be made available 
        notwithstanding section 1224 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228; 22 
        U.S.C. 2346 note).
            (4) Foreign military financing program.--In addition to the 
        activities described in paragraph (2), funds appropriated by 
        this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' for assistance for Lebanon may be made available only 
        to professionalize the LAF and to strengthen border security 
        and combat terrorism, including training and equipping the LAF 
        to secure Lebanon's borders, interdicting arms shipments, 
        preventing the use of Lebanon as a safe haven for terrorist 
        groups, and to implement United Nations Security Council 
        Resolution 1701:  Provided, That funds may not be obligated for 
        assistance for the LAF until the Secretary of State submits to 
        the Committees on Appropriations a spend plan, including 
        actions to be taken to ensure equipment provided to the LAF is 
        only used for the intended purposes, except such plan may not 
        be considered as meeting the notification requirements under 
        section 7015 of this Act or under section 634A of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961, and shall be submitted not later than 
        September 1, 2017:  Provided further, That any notification 
        submitted pursuant to such sections shall include any funds 
        specifically intended for lethal military equipment.
    (f) Libya.--
            (1) Funding.--
                    (A) Of the funds appropriated by titles III and IV 
                of this Act, not less than $20,500,000 shall be made 
                available for assistance for Libya for programs to 
                strengthen governing institutions and civil society, 
                improve border security, and promote democracy and 
                stability in Libya, and for activities to address the 
                humanitarian needs of the people of Libya.
                    (B) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining 
                and Related Programs'' shall be made available for 
                explosive ordnance disposal programs in areas liberated 
                from extremist organizations in Libya:  Provided, That 
                such programs should utilize local organizations and 
                individuals to the maximum extent practicable.
                    (C) Funds appropriated under title IV of this Act 
                and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department 
                of State, foreign operations, and related programs that 
                are made available for lethal assistance for Libya may 
                only be made available following consultation with the 
                Committees on Appropriations.
                    (D) The Secretary of State shall promptly inform 
                the appropriate congressional committees of each 
                instance in which a significant amount of assistance 
                provided pursuant to this subsection has been 
                misappropriated, to include the type and amount of 
                assistance, a description of the incident and parties 
                involved, and an explanation of the response of the 
                Department of State.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) Cooperation on the september 2012 attack on 
                united states personnel and facilities.--None of the 
                funds appropriated by this Act may be made available 
                for assistance for the central Government of Libya 
                unless the Secretary of State certifies and reports to 
                the Committees on Appropriations that such government 
                is cooperating with United States Government efforts to 
                investigate and bring to justice those responsible for 
                the attack on United States personnel and facilities in 
                Benghazi, Libya in September 2012:  Provided, That the 
                limitation in this paragraph shall not apply to funds 
                made available for the purpose of protecting United 
                States Government personnel or facilities.
                    (B) Infrastructure projects.--The limitation on the 
                uses of funds in section 7041(f)(2) of the Department 
                of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
                Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-
                76) shall apply to funds appropriated by this Act that 
                are made available for assistance for Libya.
            (3) Certification requirement.--Prior to the initial 
        obligation of funds made available by this Act for assistance 
        for Libya, the Secretary of State shall certify and report to 
        the Committees on Appropriations that all practicable steps 
        have been taken to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
        monitoring, oversight, and control of funds made available by 
        this subsection for assistance for Libya, including a 
        description of the vetting procedures to be used for recipients 
        of assistance made available under title IV of this Act.
    (g) Morocco.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``Foreign Military Financing Program'' that are available for 
assistance for Morocco may only be used for the purposes requested in 
the Congressional Budget Justification, Foreign Operations, Fiscal Year 
2017.
    (h) Syria.--
            (1) Non-lethal assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``International 
        Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', and ``Peacekeeping 
        Operations'' shall be made available, notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, for non-lethal assistance for programs to 
        address the needs of civilians affected by conflict in Syria, 
        and for programs that seek to--
                    (A) establish governance in Syria that is 
                representative, inclusive, and accountable;
                    (B) empower women through political and economic 
                programs, and address the psychosocial needs of women 
                and their families in Syria and neighboring countries;
                    (C) develop and implement political processes that 
                are democratic, transparent, and strengthen the rule of 
                law;
                    (D) further the legitimacy and viability of the 
                Syrian opposition through cross-border programs;
                    (E) develop and sustain civil society and an 
                independent media in Syria;
                    (F) promote stability and economic development in 
                Syria, including in areas liberated from extremists;
                    (G) document, investigate, and prosecute human 
                rights violations in Syria, including through 
                transitional justice programs and support for 
                nongovernmental organizations;
                    (H) expand the role of women in negotiations to end 
                the violence and in any political transition in Syria;
                    (I) assist Syrian refugees whose education has been 
                interrupted by the ongoing conflict to complete higher 
                education requirements at universities, regional 
                academic institutions, and through distance learning;
                    (J) assist vulnerable populations in Syria and in 
                neighboring countries;
                    (K) protect and preserve the cultural identity of 
                the people of Syria, particularly those living in 
                neighboring countries and among the youth, and promote 
                the use of traditional art, music, and literature as a 
                counterbalance to extremism;
                    (L) protect and preserve cultural heritage sites in 
                Syria, particularly those damaged and destroyed by 
                extremists; and
                    (M) counter extremism in Syria.
            (2) Explosive ordnance disposal programs.--Funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Nonproliferation, 
        Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'' shall be made 
        available for explosive ordnance disposal programs in areas 
        liberated from extremist organizations in Syria:  Provided, 
        That such programs should utilize local organizations and 
        individuals to the maximum extent practicable.
            (3) Syrian organizations.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        that are made available for assistance for Syria pursuant to 
        the authority of this subsection shall be made available, on an 
        open and competitive basis, to continue a program to strengthen 
        the capability of Syrian civil society organizations, including 
        through the provision of core support, to address the immediate 
        and long-term needs of the Syrian people inside Syria in a 
        manner that supports the sustainability of such organizations 
        in implementing Syrian-led humanitarian and development 
        programs and the comprehensive strategy required in section 
        7041(i)(3) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
        Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public 
        Law 113-76).
            (4) Strategy update.--Funds appropriated by this Act that 
        are made available for assistance for Syria pursuant to the 
        authority of this subsection may only be made available after 
        the Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads of 
        relevant United States Government agencies, submits, in 
        classified form if necessary, an update to the comprehensive 
        strategy required in section 7041(i)(3) of Public Law 113-76.
            (5) Monitoring and oversight.--Prior to the obligation of 
        funds appropriated by this Act and made available for 
        assistance for Syria, the Secretary of State shall take all 
        practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
        monitoring, oversight, and control of such assistance inside 
        Syria, and shall provide the Committees on Appropriations with 
        a description of the vetting procedures to be used for 
        recipients of assistance made available under title IV of this 
        Act:  Provided, That the Secretary shall promptly inform the 
        appropriate congressional committees of each instance in which 
        a significant amount of assistance provided pursuant to this 
        subsection has been misappropriated, to include the type and 
        amount of assistance, a description of the incident and parties 
        involved, and an explanation of the response of the Department 
        of State.
            (6) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available 
        pursuant to this subsection may only be made available 
        following consultation with the appropriate congressional 
        committees, and shall be subject to the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (i) Tunisia.--Of the funds appropriated under titles III and IV of 
this Act, not less than $145,400,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Tunisia:  Provided, That of funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made available 
for assistance for Tunisia, not less than $28,300,000 shall be made 
available for democracy programs, of which not less than $5,000,000 
shall be for programs that seek to--
            (1) engage Tunisian youth in political processes, including 
        through participation in political parties and civil society; 
        and
            (2) empower regional and local governing councils through 
        training focused on budgeting, fiscal policy, decision-making 
        processes, and engagement with local civil society 
        organizations:
  Provided further, That the Department of State and USAID, as 
appropriate, shall consult on the uses of funds appropriated by this 
Act for democracy programs for Tunisia prior to the obligation of such 
funds.
    (j) West Bank and Gaza.--
            (1) Report on assistance.--Prior to the initial obligation 
        of funds made available by this Act under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the West Bank and 
        Gaza, the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that the purpose of such assistance is to--
                    (A) advance Middle East peace;
                    (B) improve security in the region;
                    (C) continue support for transparent and 
                accountable government institutions;
                    (D) promote a private sector economy; or
                    (E) address urgent humanitarian needs.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A)(i) None of the funds appropriated under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act may be 
                made available for assistance for the Palestinian 
                Authority, if after the date of enactment of this Act--
                            (I) the Palestinians obtain the same 
                        standing as member states or full membership as 
                        a state in the United Nations or any 
                        specialized agency thereof outside an agreement 
                        negotiated between Israel and the Palestinians; 
                        or
                            (II) the Palestinians initiate an 
                        International Criminal Court (ICC) judicially 
                        authorized investigation, or actively support 
                        such an investigation, that subjects Israeli 
                        nationals to an investigation for alleged 
                        crimes against Palestinians.
                    (ii) The Secretary of State may waive the 
                restriction in clause (i) of this subparagraph 
                resulting from the application of subclause (I) of such 
                clause if the Secretary certifies to the Committees on 
                Appropriations that to do so is in the national 
                security interest of the United States, and submits a 
                report to such Committees detailing how the waiver and 
                the continuation of assistance would assist in 
                furthering Middle East peace.
                    (B)(i) The President may waive the provisions of 
                section 1003 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
                Act, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204) if 
                the President determines and certifies in writing to 
                the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the 
                President pro tempore of the Senate, and the 
                appropriate congressional committees that the 
                Palestinians have not, after the date of enactment of 
                this Act--
                            (I) obtained in the United Nations or any 
                        specialized agency thereof the same standing as 
                        member states or full membership as a state 
                        outside an agreement negotiated between Israel 
                        and the Palestinians; and
                            (II) taken any action with respect to the 
                        ICC that is intended to influence a 
                        determination by the ICC to initiate a 
                        judicially authorized investigation, or to 
                        actively support such an investigation, that 
                        subjects Israeli nationals to an investigation 
                        for alleged crimes against Palestinians.
                    (ii) Not less than 90 days after the President is 
                unable to make the certification pursuant to clause (i) 
                of this subparagraph, the President may waive section 
                1003 of Public Law 100-204 if the President determines 
                and certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House of 
                Representatives, the President pro tempore of the 
                Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations that the 
                Palestinians have entered into direct and meaningful 
                negotiations with Israel:  Provided, That any waiver of 
                the provisions of section 1003 of Public Law 100-204 
                under clause (i) of this subparagraph or under previous 
                provisions of law must expire before the waiver under 
                the preceding sentence may be exercised.
                    (iii) Any waiver pursuant to this subparagraph 
                shall be effective for no more than a period of 6 
                months at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months 
                after the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Reduction.--The Secretary of State shall reduce the 
        amount of assistance made available by this Act under the 
        heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the Palestinian Authority 
        by an amount the Secretary determines is equivalent to the 
        amount expended by the Palestinian Authority, the Palestine 
        Liberation Organization, and any successor or affiliated 
        organizations with such entities as payments for acts of 
        terrorism by individuals who are imprisoned after being fairly 
        tried and convicted for acts of terrorism and by individuals 
        who died committing acts of terrorism during the previous 
        calendar year:  Provided, That the Secretary shall report to 
        the Committees on Appropriations on the amount reduced for 
        fiscal year 2017 prior to the obligation of funds for the 
        Palestinian Authority.
            (4) Security report.--The reporting requirements contained 
        in section 1404 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 
        (Public Law 110-252) shall apply to funds made available by 
        this Act, including a description of modifications, if any, to 
        the security strategy of the Palestinian Authority.
            (5) Transfer of funds.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made 
        available for assistance for the West Bank, up to $35,000,000 
        may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by 
        this Act under the heading ``International Narcotics Control 
        and Law Enforcement'' for Palestinian security sector programs: 
         Provided, That such transfer authority is in addition to any 
        transfer authority otherwise available under any provision of 
        law, and shall be subject to the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (k) Western Sahara.--Funds appropriated under title III of this Act 
may be made available for assistance for the people of the Western 
Sahara following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided, That nothing in this Act shall be construed to change the 
policy of the United States to find a peaceful, sustainable, and 
mutually agreed-upon solution for the Western Sahara.
    (l) Yemen.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``International Narcotics Control 
and Law Enforcement'', and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining 
and Related Programs'', not less than $46,884,000 shall be made 
available for assistance for Yemen, except that no such funds may be 
made available for significant infrastructure projects.

                                 africa

    Sec. 7042. (a) African Great Lakes Region Assistance Restriction.--
None of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
``International Military Education and Training'' may be made available 
for assistance for the central government of a country in the African 
Great Lakes region until the Secretary of State determines and reports 
to the Committees on Appropriations that such government is not 
facilitating or otherwise participating in destabilizing activities in 
a neighboring country, including aiding and abetting armed groups.
    (b) Boko Haram.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are made 
available for assistance for Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria--
            (1) shall be made available for assistance for women and 
        girls who are targeted by the terrorist organization Boko 
        Haram, consistent with the provisions of section 7059 of this 
        Act; and
            (2) may be made available for counterterrorism programs to 
        combat Boko Haram.
    (c) Ethiopia.--
            (1) Forced evictions.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act for assistance 
                for Ethiopia may not be made available for any activity 
                that supports forced evictions.
                    (B) The Secretary of the Treasury should instruct 
                the United States executive director of each 
                international financial institution to use the voice 
                and vote of the United States to support projects in 
                Ethiopia only if such projects are developed and 
                carried out in accordance with the requirements of 
                section 7029(b)(2) of this Act.
            (2) Consultation requirement.--Programs and activities to 
        improve livelihoods shall include prior consultation with, and 
        the participation of, affected communities, including in the 
        South Omo and Gambella regions.
            (3) Foreign military financing program.--Funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' for assistance for Ethiopia may only be made 
        available for border security and counterterrorism programs, 
        support for international peacekeeping efforts, and assistance 
        for the Ethiopian Defense Command and Staff College.
    (d) Lake Chad Basin Countries.--Funds appropriated by this Act for 
democracy programs for Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria should be 
made available to protect freedoms of expression, association and 
religion, including support for journalists, civil society, and 
opposition political parties, and should be used to assist the 
governments of such countries to strengthen accountability and the rule 
of law, including within the security forces.
    (e) Lord's Resistance Army.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $10,000,000 
shall be made available for programs and activities in areas affected 
by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) consistent with the goals of the 
Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act 
(Public Law 111-172), including to improve physical access, 
telecommunications infrastructure, and early-warning mechanisms and to 
support the disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration of former 
LRA combatants, especially child soldiers.
    (f) South Sudan.--
            (1) Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are 
        made available for assistance for South Sudan should--
                    (A) be prioritized for programs that respond to 
                humanitarian needs and the delivery of basic services 
                and to mitigate conflict and promote stability, 
                including to address protection needs and prevent and 
                respond to gender-based violence;
                    (B) support programs that build resilience of 
                communities to address food insecurity, maintain 
                educational opportunities, and enhance local 
                governance;
                    (C) be used to advance democracy and accountability 
                for war crimes, including support for civil society, 
                independent media, and other means to strengthen the 
                rule of law;
                    (D) support the transparent and sustainable 
                management of natural resources by assisting the 
                Government of South Sudan in conducting regular audits 
                of financial accounts, including revenues from oil and 
                gas, and the timely public disclosure of such audits; 
                and
                    (E) support the professionalization of security 
                forces, including human rights and accountability to 
                civilian authorities.
            (2) Certification.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act that are available for assistance for the central 
        Government of South Sudan may be made available until the 
        Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such government is taking effective steps 
        to--
                    (A) end hostilities and pursue good faith 
                negotiations for a political settlement of the internal 
                conflict;
                    (B) provide access for humanitarian organizations;
                    (C) end the recruitment and use of child soldiers;
                    (D) protect freedoms of expression, association, 
                and assembly;
                    (E) reduce corruption related to the extraction and 
                sale of oil and gas; and
                    (F) establish democratic institutions, including 
                accountable military and police forces under civilian 
                authority.
            (3) Exclusions.--The limitation of paragraph (2) shall not 
        apply to--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) assistance to support South Sudan peace 
                negotiations or to advance or implement a peace 
                agreement; and
                    (C) assistance to support implementation of 
                outstanding issues of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement 
                and mutual arrangements related to such Agreement.
    (g) Sudan.--
            (1) Limitation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, none of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for assistance for the Government of Sudan.
            (2) Limitation on loans.--None of the funds appropriated by 
        this Act may be made available for the cost, as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of 
        modifying loans and loan guarantees held by the Government of 
        Sudan, including the cost of selling, reducing, or canceling 
        amounts owed to the United States, and modifying concessional 
        loans, guarantees, and credit agreements.
            (3) Exclusions.--The limitations of paragraphs (1) and (2) 
        shall not apply to--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) assistance for democracy programs;
                    (C) assistance for the Darfur region, Southern 
                Kordofan State, Blue Nile State, other marginalized 
                areas and populations in Sudan, and Abyei; and
                    (D) assistance to support implementation of 
                outstanding issues of the Comprehensive Peace 
                Agreement, mutual arrangements related to post-
                referendum issues associated with such Agreement, or 
                any other internationally recognized viable peace 
                agreement in Sudan.
    (h) Zimbabwe.--
            (1) Instruction.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        instruct the United States executive director of each 
        international financial institution to vote against any 
        extension by the respective institution of any loan or grant to 
        the Government of Zimbabwe, except to meet basic human needs or 
        to promote democracy, unless the Secretary of State certifies 
        and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the rule 
        of law has been restored, including respect for ownership and 
        title to property, and freedoms of expression, association, and 
        assembly.
            (2) Limitations.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act shall be made available for assistance for the central 
        Government of Zimbabwe, except for health and education, unless 
        the Secretary of State certifies and reports as required in 
        paragraph (1), and funds may be made available for 
        macroeconomic growth assistance if the Secretary reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that such government is 
        implementing transparent fiscal policies, including public 
        disclosure of revenues from the extraction of natural 
        resources.

                       east asia and the pacific

    Sec. 7043. (a) Asia Rebalancing Initiative.--Except for paragraphs 
(1)(C), (4), (5)(B) and (C), and 6(B), section 7043(a) of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall 
continue in effect during fiscal year 2017:  Provided, That section 
7043(a)(8) of such Act shall be applied to funds appropriated by this 
Act by adding ``East Asia,'' before ``Southeast Asia''.
    (b) Burma.--
            (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for 
                Burma may be made available notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, except for this subsection, and 
                following consultation with the appropriate 
                congressional committees.
                    (B) Funds appropriated under title III of this Act 
                for assistance for Burma--
                            (i) shall be made available to strengthen 
                        civil society organizations in Burma, including 
                        as core support for such organizations;
                            (ii) shall be made available for the 
                        implementation of the democracy and human 
                        rights strategy required by section 
                        7043(b)(3)(A) of the Department of State, 
                        Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
                        Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public 
                        Law 113-76);
                            (iii) shall be made available for 
                        community-based organizations operating in 
                        Thailand to provide food, medical, and other 
                        humanitarian assistance to internally displaced 
                        persons in eastern Burma, in addition to 
                        assistance for Burmese refugees from funds 
                        appropriated by this Act under the heading 
                        ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'';
                            (iv) shall be made available for programs 
                        to promote ethnic and religious tolerance, 
                        including in Rakhine and Kachin states;
                            (v) may not be made available to any 
                        successor or affiliated organization of the 
                        State Peace and Development Council (SPDC) 
                        controlled by former SPDC members that promotes 
                        the repressive policies of the SPDC, or to any 
                        individual or organization credibly alleged to 
                        have committed gross violations of human 
                        rights, including against Rohingya and other 
                        minority groups;
                            (vi) may be made available for programs 
                        administered by the Office of Transition 
                        Initiatives, United States Agency for 
                        International Development, for ethnic groups 
                        and civil society in Burma to help sustain 
                        ceasefire agreements and further prospects for 
                        reconciliation and peace, which may include 
                        support to representatives of ethnic armed 
                        groups for this purpose; and
                            (vii) may not be made available to any 
                        organization or individual the Secretary of 
                        State determines and reports to the appropriate 
                        congressional committees advocates violence 
                        against ethnic or religious groups and 
                        individuals in Burma.
            (2) International security assistance.--None of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the headings ``International 
        Military Education and Training'' and ``Foreign Military 
        Financing Program'' may be made available for assistance for 
        Burma:  Provided, That the Department of State may continue 
        consultations with the armed forces of Burma only on human 
        rights and disaster response in a manner consistent with the 
        prior fiscal year, and following consultation with the 
        appropriate congressional committees.
            (3) Multilateral assistance.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
        should instruct the United States executive director of each 
        international financial institution to use the voice and vote 
        of the United States to support projects in Burma only if such 
        projects are developed and carried out in accordance with the 
        requirements of section 7029(b)(2) of this Act.
            (4) Programs, position, and responsibilities.--
                    (A) Any new program or activity in Burma initiated 
                in fiscal year 2017 shall be subject to prior 
                consultation with the appropriate congressional 
                committees.
                    (B) Section 7043(b)(7) of the Department of State, 
                Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
                Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall 
                continue in effect during fiscal year 2017.
    (c) Cambodia.--
            (1) Determination.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act may be made available for assistance for Cambodia unless 
        the Secretary of State determines and reports to the 
        appropriate congressional committees that the Government of 
        Cambodia has ceased violence and harassment against civil 
        society in Cambodia, including the political opposition.
            (2) Khmer rouge tribunal.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        that are made available for assistance for Cambodia may only be 
        made available for a contribution to the Extraordinary Chambers 
        in the Court of Cambodia (ECCC) if the Secretary of State 
        certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
        the ECCC will consider Case 003:  Provided, That such funds 
        shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
        notification procedures of, such Committees:  Provided further, 
        That the Secretary of State shall seek reimbursements from the 
        Principal Donors Group for the Documentation Center of Cambodia 
        for costs incurred in support of the ECCC.
            (3) Research and education.--Funds made available by this 
        Act for democracy programs in Cambodia shall be made available 
        for research and education programs associated with the Khmer 
        Rouge genocide in Cambodia.
    (d) North Korea.--
            (1) Broadcasts.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``International Broadcasting Operations'' shall be made 
        available to maintain broadcasting hours into North Korea at 
        levels consistent with the prior fiscal year.
            (2) Refugees.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' should be made 
        available for assistance for refugees from North Korea, 
        including protection activities in the People's Republic of 
        China and other countries in Asia.
            (3) Database and report.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under title III shall be made available to maintain a database 
        of prisons and gulags in North Korea, in accordance with 
        section 7032(i) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
        and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of 
        Public Law 113-76).
            (4) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds made 
        available by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
        Fund'' may be made available for assistance for the Government 
        of North Korea.
            (5) Family reunions.--
                    (A) Availability of funds.--Funds appropriated by 
                this Act under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
                Programs'' may be made available for the consultations 
                described in S. 2657 (as introduced in the Senate on 
                March 9, 2016) regarding family reunions between Korean 
                Americans and North Koreans who were separated 
                following the signing of the Korean War Armistice 
                Agreement.
                    (B) Reporting requirement.--The Secretary of State 
                shall include as part of the report required under 
                section 107(d) of the North Korean Human Rights Act of 
                2004 (22 U.S.C. 7817) a description of the 
                consultations described under subparagraph (A) 
                conducted during the year preceding the submission of 
                such report:  Provided, That such report may include a 
                classified annex.
    (e) People's Republic of China.--
            (1) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds 
        appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
        Programs'' in this Act may be obligated or expended for 
        processing licenses for the export of satellites of United 
        States origin (including commercial satellites and satellite 
        components) to the People's Republic of China (PRC) unless, at 
        least 15 days in advance, the Committees on Appropriations are 
        notified of such proposed action.
            (2) People's liberation army.--The terms and requirements 
        of section 620(h) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall 
        apply to foreign assistance projects or activities of the 
        People's Liberation Army (PLA) of the PRC, to include such 
        projects or activities by any entity that is owned or 
        controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA:  Provided, That 
        none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
        pursuant to this Act may be used to finance any grant, 
        contract, or cooperative agreement with the PLA, or any entity 
        that the Secretary of State has reason to believe is owned or 
        controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA.
            (3) Counter influence programs.--Funds appropriated by this 
        Act for public diplomacy under title I and for assistance under 
        titles III and IV shall be made available to counter the 
        influence of the PRC, in accordance with the strategy required 
        by section 7043(e)(3) of the Department of State, Foreign 
        Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 
        (division K of Public Law 113-76), following consultation with 
        the Committees on Appropriations.
    (f) Thailand.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $4,000,000 shall be 
made available for democracy and conflict resolution programs in 
Thailand.
    (g) Tibet.--
            (1) Financing of projects in tibet.--The Secretary of the 
        Treasury should instruct the United States executive director 
        of each international financial institution to use the voice 
        and vote of the United States to support financing of projects 
        in Tibet if such projects do not provide incentives for the 
        migration and settlement of non-Tibetans into Tibet or 
        facilitate the transfer of ownership of Tibetan land and 
        natural resources to non-Tibetans, are based on a thorough 
        needs-assessment, foster self-sufficiency of the Tibetan people 
        and respect Tibetan culture and traditions, and are subject to 
        effective monitoring.
            (2) Programs for tibetan communities.--
                    (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of 
                the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
                ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than $8,000,000 
                shall be made available to nongovernmental 
                organizations to support activities which preserve 
                cultural traditions and promote sustainable 
                development, education, and environmental conservation 
                in Tibetan communities in the Tibetan Autonomous Region 
                and in other Tibetan communities in the People's 
                Republic of China.
                    (B) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
                $6,000,000 shall be made available for programs to 
                promote and preserve Tibetan culture, development, and 
                the resilience of Tibetan communities in India and 
                Nepal, and to assist in the education and development 
                of the next generation of Tibetan leaders from such 
                communities:  Provided, That such funds are in addition 
                to amounts made available in subparagraph (A) for 
                programs inside Tibet.
    (h) Vietnam.--
            (1) Dioxin remediation.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
        the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
        $20,000,000 shall be made available for activities related to 
        the remediation of dioxin contaminated sites in Vietnam and may 
        be made available for assistance for the Government of Vietnam, 
        including the military, for such purposes.
            (2) Health and disability programs.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Development 
        Assistance'', not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available 
        for health and disability programs in areas sprayed with Agent 
        Orange and otherwise contaminated with dioxin, to assist 
        individuals with severe upper or lower body mobility impairment 
        and/or cognitive or developmental disabilities.

                         south and central asia

    Sec. 7044. (a) Afghanistan.--
            (1) Diplomatic operations.--
                    (A) Facilities.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular 
                Programs'', ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
                Maintenance'', and ``Operating Expenses'' that are 
                available for construction and renovation of United 
                States Government facilities in Afghanistan may not be 
                made available if the purpose is to accommodate Federal 
                employee positions or to expand aviation facilities or 
                assets above those notified by the Department of State 
                and the United States Agency for International 
                Development to the Committees on Appropriations, or 
                contractors in addition to those in place on the date 
                of enactment of this Act:  Provided, That the 
                limitations in this paragraph shall not apply if funds 
                are necessary to implement plans for accommodating 
                other United States Government agencies under Chief of 
                Mission authority per section 3927 of title 22, United 
                States Code, or to protect such facilities or the 
                security, health, and welfare of United States 
                Government personnel.
                    (B) Personnel report.--Not later than 30 days after 
                enactment of this Act and every 120 days thereafter 
                until September 30, 2017, the Secretary of State shall 
                submit a report, in classified form if necessary, to 
                the appropriate congressional committees detailing by 
                agency the number of personnel present in Afghanistan 
                under Chief of Mission authority per section 3927 of 
                title 22, United States Code, at the end of the 120 day 
                period preceding the submission of such report:  
                Provided, That such report shall also include the 
                number of locally employed staff and contractors 
                supporting United States Embassy operations in 
                Afghanistan during the reporting period.
            (2) Assistance and conditions.--
                    (A) Funding and limitations.--Funds appropriated by 
                this Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' 
                and ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement'' may be made available for assistance for 
                Afghanistan:  Provided, That such funds may not be 
                obligated for any project or activity that--
                            (i) includes the participation of any 
                        Afghan individual or organization, including 
                        government entity, that the Secretary of State 
                        determines to be involved in corrupt practices, 
                        illicit narcotics production or trafficking, or 
                        a violation of human rights;
                            (ii) cannot be sustained, as appropriate, 
                        by the Government of Afghanistan or another 
                        Afghan entity;
                            (iii) is inaccessible or not regularly 
                        accessible for the purposes of conducting 
                        effective oversight in accordance with 
                        applicable Federal statutes and regulations; or
                            (iv) initiates any new, major 
                        infrastructure development.
                    (B) Certification and report.--Prior to the initial 
                obligation of funds made available by this Act under 
                the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
                ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' 
                for assistance for the central Government of 
                Afghanistan, the Secretary of State shall certify and 
                report to the Committees on Appropriations, after 
                consultation with the Government of Afghanistan, that--
                            (i) goals and benchmarks for the specific 
                        uses of such funds have been established by the 
                        Governments of the United States and 
                        Afghanistan;
                            (ii) conditions are in place that increase 
                        the transparency and accountability of the 
                        Government of Afghanistan for funds obligated 
                        under the New Development Partnership;
                            (iii) the Government of Afghanistan is 
                        implementing laws and policies to govern 
                        democratically and protect the rights of 
                        individuals, civil society, and the media, 
                        including the Law on Mass Media and the Access 
                        to Information Act;
                            (iv) the Government of Afghanistan is 
                        taking consistent steps to protect and advance 
                        the rights of women and girls in Afghanistan;
                            (v) the Government of Afghanistan is 
                        reducing corruption and prosecuting individuals 
                        alleged to be involved in illegal activities in 
                        Afghanistan;
                            (vi) monitoring and oversight frameworks 
                        for programs implemented with such funds are in 
                        accordance with all applicable audit policies 
                        of the Department of State and USAID;
                            (vii) the necessary policies and procedures 
                        are in place to ensure Government of 
                        Afghanistan compliance with section 7013 of 
                        this Act; and
                            (viii) the Government of Afghanistan is 
                        publicly reporting its national budget, 
                        including revenues and expenditures.
                    (C) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
                certification requirement of subparagraph (B) if the 
                Secretary determines that to do so is important to the 
                national security interest of the United States and the 
                Secretary submits a report to the Committees on 
                Appropriations, in classified form if necessary, on the 
                justification for the waiver and the reasons why any of 
                the requirements of subparagraph (B) cannot be met.
                    (D) Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act that 
                are made available for assistance for Afghanistan shall 
                be made available in the following manner--
                            (i) not less than $50,000,000 shall be made 
                        available for rule of law programs, the 
                        decisions for which shall be the responsibility 
                        of the Chief of Mission, in consultation with 
                        other appropriate United States Government 
                        officials in Afghanistan;
                            (ii) for programs that protect the rights 
                        of women and girls and promote the political 
                        and economic empowerment of women, including 
                        their meaningful inclusion in political 
                        processes:  Provided, That such assistance to 
                        promote economic empowerment of women shall be 
                        made available as grants to Afghan and 
                        international organizations, to the maximum 
                        extent practicable;
                            (iii) for programs in South and Central 
                        Asia to expand linkages between Afghanistan and 
                        countries in the region, subject to the regular 
                        notification procedures of the Committees on 
                        Appropriations;
                            (iv) to assist the Government of 
                        Afghanistan to increase revenue collection and 
                        expenditure; and
                            (v) not less than $10,000,000 should be 
                        made available for the Afghan Civilian 
                        Assistance Program.
                    (E) Taxation.--None of the funds appropriated by 
                this Act and prior Acts making Appropriations for the 
                Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
                programs for assistance for Afghanistan may be made 
                available for direct government-to-government 
                assistance unless the Secretary of State certifies and 
                reports to the Committees on Appropriations that United 
                States companies and organizations that are 
                implementing United States foreign assistance programs 
                in Afghanistan in a manner consistent with United 
                States laws and regulations are not subjected by such 
                government to taxes or other fees in contravention of 
                diplomatic and other international agreements, or to 
                retaliation for the nonpayment of taxes or fees imposed 
                in the past:  Provided, That not later than 90 days 
                after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State 
                shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
                committees an assessment of the dollar value of 
                improper taxes or fees levied by such government 
                against such companies and organizations in fiscal 
                years 2014, 2015, and 2016.
            (3) Goals and benchmarks.--Not later than 90 days after 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to 
        the appropriate congressional committees a report describing 
        the goals and benchmarks required in paragraph (2)(B)(i):  
        Provided, That not later than 6 months after the submission of 
        such report and every 6 months thereafter until September 30, 
        2018, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to such 
        committees on the status of achieving such goals and 
        benchmarks:  Provided further, That the Secretary of State 
        should suspend assistance for the Government of Afghanistan if 
        any report required by this paragraph indicates that such 
        government is failing to make measurable progress in meeting 
        such goals and benchmarks.
            (4) Authorities.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under title III 
                through VI that are made available for assistance for 
                Afghanistan may be made available--
                            (i) notwithstanding section 7012 of this 
                        Act or any similar provision of law and section 
                        660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
                            (ii) for reconciliation programs and 
                        disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration 
                        activities for former combatants who have 
                        renounced violence against the Government of 
                        Afghanistan, in accordance with section 
                        7046(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Department of State, 
                        Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
                        Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of Public 
                        Law 112-74); and
                            (iii) for an endowment to empower women and 
                        girls.
                    (B) Section 7046(a)(2)(A) of division I of Public 
                Law 112-74 shall apply to funds appropriated by this 
                Act for assistance for Afghanistan.
                    (C) Section 1102(c) of the Supplemental 
                Appropriations Act, 2009 (title XI of Public Law 111-
                32) shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2017.
            (5) Basing rights agreement.--None of the funds made 
        available by this Act may be used by the United States 
        Government to enter into a permanent basing rights agreement 
        between the United States and Afghanistan.
    (b) Nepal.--
            (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--Not less than 
        $50,000,000 of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Development Assistance'' shall be made available for 
        assistance for Nepal for earthquake recovery and reconstruction 
        programs, which should--
                    (A) target affected communities on an equitable 
                basis; and
                    (B) include sufficient oversight mechanisms, to 
                include the participation of civil society 
                organizations.
            (2) Foreign military financing program.--Funds appropriated 
        by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' shall only be made available for humanitarian and 
        disaster relief and reconstruction activities in Nepal, and in 
        support of international peacekeeping operations:  Provided, 
        That such funds may only be made available for any additional 
        uses if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that the Government of Nepal is 
        investigating and prosecuting violations of human rights and 
        the laws of war, and the Nepal Army is cooperating fully with 
        civilian judicial authorities in such cases.
    (c) Pakistan.--
            (1) Certification requirement.--None of the funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act under the 
        headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``International Narcotics 
        Control and Law Enforcement'', and ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' for assistance for the Government of Pakistan may be 
        made available unless the Secretary of State certifies and 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government 
        of Pakistan is--
                    (A) cooperating with the United States in 
                counterterrorism efforts against the Haqqani Network, 
                the Quetta Shura Taliban, Lashkar e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-
                Mohammed, Al-Qaeda, and other domestic and foreign 
                terrorist organizations, including taking effective 
                steps to end support for such groups and prevent them 
                from basing and operating in Pakistan and carrying out 
                cross border attacks into neighboring countries;
                    (B) not supporting terrorist activities against 
                United States or coalition forces in Afghanistan, and 
                Pakistan's military and intelligence agencies are not 
                intervening extra-judicially into political and 
                judicial processes in Pakistan;
                    (C) not financing or otherwise supporting schools 
                supported by, affiliated with, or run by the Taliban or 
                any designated foreign terrorist organization;
                    (D) dismantling improvised explosive device (IED) 
                networks and interdicting precursor chemicals used in 
                the manufacture of IEDs;
                    (E) preventing the proliferation of nuclear-related 
                material and expertise;
                    (F) issuing visas in a timely manner for United 
                States visitors engaged in counterterrorism efforts and 
                assistance programs in Pakistan; and
                    (G) providing humanitarian organizations access to 
                detainees, internally displaced persons, and other 
                Pakistani civilians affected by the conflict.
            (2) Waiver and reports.--
                    (A) The Secretary of State may waive the 
                certification requirement of paragraph (1) with respect 
                to funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
                this Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' 
                and ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement'' for assistance for the Government of 
                Pakistan if the Secretary determines that to do so is 
                important to the national security interest of the 
                United States.
                    (B) The Secretary of State may waive the 
                certification requirement of paragraph (1) with respect 
                to 85 percent of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
                made available by this Act under the heading ``Foreign 
                Military Financing Program'' for assistance for the 
                Government of Pakistan if the Secretary determines that 
                to do so is important to the national security interest 
                of the United States:  Provided, That funds withheld by 
                application of this subparagraph shall be withheld from 
                obligation until the Secretary submits to the 
                Committees on Appropriations the certification required 
                by paragraph (1).
                    (C) In exercising the authority of this paragraph, 
                the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
                Committees on Appropriations, in classified form if 
                necessary, on the justification for any waivers in 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) and the reasons why any of 
                the requirements of paragraph (1) cannot be met.
            (3) Assistance.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for 
                assistance for Pakistan may be made available only to 
                support counterterrorism and counterinsurgency 
                capabilities in Pakistan.
                    (B) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
                ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and 
                Related Programs'' that are available for assistance 
                for Pakistan shall be made available to interdict 
                precursor materials from Pakistan to Afghanistan that 
                are used to manufacture IEDs, including calcium 
                ammonium nitrate; to support programs to train border 
                and customs officials in Pakistan and Afghanistan; and 
                for agricultural extension programs that encourage 
                alternative fertilizer use among Pakistani farmers.
                    (C) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made 
                available for assistance for infrastructure projects in 
                Pakistan shall be implemented in a manner consistent 
                with section 507(6) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
                2467(6)).
                    (D) Funds appropriated by this Act under titles III 
                and IV for assistance for Pakistan may be made 
                available notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
                except for section 620M of the Foreign Assistance Act 
                of 1961.
                    (E) Of the funds appropriated under titles III and 
                IV of this Act that are made available for assistance 
                for Pakistan, $33,000,000 shall be withheld from 
                obligation until the Secretary of State reports to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that Dr. Shakil Afridi has 
                been released from prison and cleared of all charges 
                relating to the assistance provided to the United 
                States in locating Osama bin Laden.
            (4) Scholarships for women.--The authority and directives 
        of section 7044(d)(4) of the Department of State, Foreign 
        Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 
        (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall apply to funds 
        appropriated by this Act that are made available for assistance 
        for Pakistan.
            (5) Reports.--
                    (A)(i) Not later than 6 months after submission of 
                the spend plan required by section 7076 of this Act for 
                assistance for Pakistan, and each 6 months thereafter 
                until September 30, 2018, the Secretary of State shall 
                submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations on 
                the status of achieving the goals and benchmarks in 
                such plan.
                    (ii) The Secretary of State should suspend 
                assistance for the Government of Pakistan if any report 
                required by clause (i) indicates that Pakistan is 
                failing to make measurable progress in meeting such 
                goals or benchmarks.
                    (B) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
                Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to 
                the Committees on Appropriations detailing the costs 
                and objectives associated with significant 
                infrastructure projects supported by the United States 
                in Pakistan during the previous fiscal year, and an 
                assessment of the extent to which such projects achieve 
                such objectives.
            (6) Oversight.--The Secretary of State shall take all 
        practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
        monitoring, oversight, and control of funds made available by 
        this subsection for assistance for Pakistan, and shall provide 
        the Committees on Appropriations with a description of the 
        vetting procedures to be used for recipients of assistance made 
        available under title IV of this Act.
    (d) Sri Lanka.--
            (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--Funds appropriated by 
        this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be 
        made available for assistance for Sri Lanka for democracy and 
        economic development programs, particularly in areas recovering 
        from ethnic and religious conflict:  Provided, That such funds 
        shall be made available for programs to assist in the 
        identification and resolution of cases of missing persons.
            (2) Certification.--Funds appropriated by this Act for 
        assistance for the central Government of Sri Lanka may be made 
        available only if the Secretary of State certifies and reports 
        to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government of Sri 
        Lanka is--
                    (A) taking steps to repeal the Prevention of 
                Terrorism Act (PTA), including releasing or charging 
                all individuals detained pursuant to the PTA;
                    (B) increasing accountability and transparency in 
                governance; and
                    (C) supporting a credible justice mechanism in 
                compliance with United Nations Human Rights Council 
                Resolution (A/HCR/30/L.29) of October, 2015.
            (3) International security assistance.--Funds appropriated 
        under title IV of this Act that are available for assistance 
        for Sri Lanka shall be subject to the following conditions--
                    (A) funds under the heading ``Foreign Military 
                Financing Program'' may only be made available for 
                programs to redeploy, restructure, and reduce the size 
                of the Sri Lankan armed forces (to include support for 
                international peacekeeping) and shall not exceed 
                $400,000;
                    (B) funds under the heading ``International 
                Military Education and Training'' may only be made 
                available for training related to international 
                peacekeeping operations and Expanded International 
                Military Education and Training; and
                    (C) funds under the heading ``Peacekeeping 
                Operations'' may only be made available for training 
                related to international peacekeeping operations.
    (e) Regional Programs.--
            (1) Cross border programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for 
        Afghanistan and Pakistan may be provided, notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law that restricts assistance to foreign 
        countries, for cross border stabilization and development 
        programs between Afghanistan and Pakistan, or between either 
        country and the Central Asian countries.
            (2) Security and justice programs.--Funds appropriated by 
        this Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', 
        ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', and 
        ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' that are 
        available for assistance for countries in South and Central 
        Asia shall be made available to enhance the recruitment, 
        retention, and professionalism of women in the judiciary, 
        police, and other security forces.

                    latin america and the caribbean

    Sec. 7045. (a) United States Engagement in Central America.--
            (1) Funding.--Subject to the requirements of this 
        subsection, of the funds appropriated under titles III and IV 
        of this Act, up to $650,575,000 may be made available for 
        assistance for countries in Central America to implement the 
        United States Strategy for Engagement in Central America (the 
        Strategy) in support of the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity 
        in the Northern Triangle of Central America (the Plan):  
        Provided, That the Secretary of State and Administrator of the 
        United States Agency for International Development shall 
        prioritize such assistance to address the key factors in such 
        countries contributing to the migration of unaccompanied, 
        undocumented minors to the United States:  Provided further, 
        That such funds shall be made available to the maximum extent 
        practicable on a cost-matching basis.
            (2) Pre-obligation requirements.--Prior to the obligation 
        of funds made available pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary of State shall submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations a multi-year spend plan updated from fiscal year 
        2016:  Provided, That such updated spend plan shall also 
        include a description of how such assistance will differ from, 
        complement, and leverage funds allocated by each government and 
        other donors, including international financial institutions.
            (3) Assistance for the central governments of el salvador, 
        guatemala, and honduras.--Of the funds made available pursuant 
        to paragraph (1) that are available for assistance for each of 
        the central governments of El Salvador, Guatemala, and 
        Honduras, the following amounts shall be withheld from 
        obligation and may only be made available as follows:
                    (A) 25 percent may only be obligated after the 
                Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
                appropriate congressional committees that such 
                government is taking effective steps, which are in 
                addition to steps taken during the previous calendar 
                year, to--
                            (i) inform its citizens of the dangers of 
                        the journey to the southwest border of the 
                        United States;
                            (ii) combat human smuggling and 
                        trafficking;
                            (iii) improve border security, including to 
                        prevent trafficking in person, illicit drugs, 
                        and other contraband; and
                            (iv) cooperate with United States 
                        Government agencies and other governments in 
                        the region to facilitate the return, 
                        repatriation, and reintegration of illegal 
                        migrants arriving at the southwest border of 
                        the United States who do not qualify as 
                        refugees, consistent with international law.
                    (B) An additional 50 percent may only be obligated 
                after the Secretary of State consults with, and 
                subsequently certifies and reports to, the appropriate 
                congressional committees that such government is taking 
                effective steps, which are in addition to steps taken 
                during the previous calendar year, to--
                            (i) establish an autonomous, publicly 
                        accountable entity to provide oversight of the 
                        Plan;
                            (ii) combat corruption, including 
                        investigating and prosecuting government 
                        officials credibly alleged to be corrupt;
                            (iii) implement reforms, policies, and 
                        programs to improve transparency and strengthen 
                        public institutions, including increasing the 
                        capacity and independence of the judiciary and 
                        the Office of the Attorney General;
                            (iv) implement a policy that local 
                        communities, civil society organizations 
                        (including indigenous and other marginalized 
                        groups), and local governments are consulted in 
                        the design, and participate in the 
                        implementation and evaluation of, activities of 
                        the Plan that affect such communities, 
                        organizations, and governments;
                            (v) counter the activities of criminal 
                        gangs, drug traffickers, and organized crime;
                            (vi) investigate and prosecute in the 
                        civilian justice system military and police 
                        personnel who are credibly alleged to have 
                        violated human rights, and ensure that the 
                        military and police are cooperating in such 
                        cases;
                            (vii) cooperate fully with commissions 
                        against impunity, as appropriate, and with 
                        regional human rights entities;
                            (viii) support programs to reduce poverty, 
                        expand education and vocational training for 
                        at-risk youth, create jobs, and promote 
                        equitable economic growth particularly in areas 
                        contributing to large numbers of migrants;
                            (ix) establish and implement a plan, with 
                        benchmarks and timetables, to create a 
                        professional, accountable civilian police force 
                        and end the role of the military in internal 
                        policing;
                            (x) protect the right of political 
                        opposition parties, journalists, trade 
                        unionists, human rights defenders, and other 
                        civil society activists to operate without 
                        interference;
                            (xi) increase government revenues, 
                        including by implementing tax reforms and 
                        strengthening customs agencies; and
                            (xii) resolve commercial disputes, 
                        including the confiscation of real property, 
                        between United States entities and such 
                        government.
            (4) Suspension of assistance and periodic review.--
                    (A) The Secretary of State shall periodically 
                review the progress of each of the central governments 
                of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in meeting the 
                requirements of paragraphs (3)(A) and (3)(B) and shall, 
                not later than September 30, 2017, submit to the 
                appropriate congressional committees a report assessing 
                such progress:  Provided, That if the Secretary 
                determines that sufficient progress has not been made 
                by a central government, the Secretary shall suspend, 
                in whole or in part, assistance for such government for 
                programs supporting such requirement, and shall notify 
                such committees in writing of such action:  Provided 
                further, That the Secretary may resume funding for such 
                programs only after the Secretary certifies to such 
                committees that corrective measures have been taken.
                    (B) The Secretary of State shall, following a 
                change of national government in El Salvador, 
                Guatemala, or Honduras, determine and report to the 
                appropriate congressional committees that any new 
                government has committed to take the steps to meet the 
                requirements of paragraphs (3)(A) and (3)(B):  
                Provided, That if the Secretary is unable to make such 
                a determination in a timely manner, assistance made 
                available under this subsection for such central 
                government shall be suspended, in whole or in part, 
                until such time as such determination and report can be 
                made.
            (5) Programs and transfer of funds.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act for the Central 
                America Regional Security Initiative may be made 
                available, after consultation with, and subject to the 
                regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
                Appropriations, to support international commissions 
                against impunity in Honduras and El Salvador, if such 
                commissions are established.
                    (B) The Department of State and USAID may, 
                following consultation with the Committees on 
                Appropriations, transfer funds made available by this 
                Act under the heading ``Development Assistance'' to the 
                Inter-American Development Bank and the Inter-American 
                Foundation for technical assistance in support of the 
                Strategy.
                    (C) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made 
                available for State Western Hemisphere Regional 
                programs, not less than $7,000,000 shall be transferred 
                to, and merged with, funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the heading ``International Organizations and 
                Programs'' for the Inter-American Commission on Human 
                Rights, Organization of American States.
    (b) Colombia.--
            (1) Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        under titles III and IV, not less than $391,253,000 shall be 
        made available for assistance for Colombia, including to 
        support the efforts of the Government of Colombia to--
                    (A) conduct a unified campaign against narcotics 
                trafficking, organizations designated as foreign 
                terrorist organizations pursuant to section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189), and 
                other criminal or illegal armed groups:  Provided, That 
                aircraft supported by funds made available by this Act 
                and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department 
                of State, foreign operations, and related programs may 
                be used to transport personnel and supplies involved in 
                drug eradication and interdiction, including security 
                for such activities, and to provide transport in 
                support of alternative development programs and 
                investigations by civilian judicial authorities;
                    (B) enhance security and improve access to justice;
                    (C) promote economic and social development; and
                    (D) implement a peace agreement between the 
                Government of Colombia and illegal armed groups, in 
                accordance with constitutional and legal requirements 
                in Colombia, and that has the support of the people of 
                Colombia:
          Provided, That such funds shall be subject to prior 
        consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, 
        the Committees on Appropriations.
            (2) Pre-obligation requirements.--Prior to the obligation 
        of funds made available pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary of State, in consultation with the USAID 
        Administrator, shall submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations--
                    (A) a multi-year spend plan; and
                    (B) with respect to any such funds made available 
                for assistance to support the efforts of the Government 
                of Colombia to implement a peace agreement, a spend 
                plan that includes--
                            (i) a detailed estimate of the funding 
                        requirements by fiscal year and appropriations 
                        account of all United States assistance 
                        required to support the successful 
                        implementation of such agreement, including in 
                        areas most affected by conflict, in fiscal year 
                        2017 and the subsequent four fiscal years;
                            (ii) a detailed estimate by fiscal year of 
                        the commitments and expenditures required by 
                        the Government of Colombia to implement such 
                        agreement in fiscal year 2017 and the 
                        subsequent four fiscal years; and
                            (iii) a description of how such assistance 
                        will differ from, complement, and leverage 
                        funds allocated by the Government of Colombia 
                        and other donors, including international 
                        financial institutions.
            (3) Refugees and human rights.--Of the funds made available 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) under the heading ``Economic Support 
        Fund''--
                    (A) not less than $7,000,000 shall be transferred 
                to, and merged with, funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' 
                for assistance for Colombian refugees in neighboring 
                countries; and
                    (B) not less than $9,000,000 shall be made 
                available for programs to protect human rights, of 
                which not less than $1,000,000 shall be made available 
                for the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner 
                for Human Rights in Colombia.
            (4) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for assistance for 
        Colombia, 20 percent may be obligated only if the Secretary of 
        State certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations 
        that--
                    (A) the Peace Tribunal and other judicial bodies 
                within the special jurisdiction for peace are 
                independent and have authority to document truth 
                declarations from perpetrators of gross violations of 
                human rights and to sentence such perpetrators to 
                meaningful sanctions, including victims' reparations, 
                guarantee of non-repetition, and depravation of 
                liberty;
                    (B) military personnel responsible for ordering, 
                committing, or covering up cases of false positives, 
                including those in command authority, are being 
                investigated, prosecuted, and appropriately sanctioned, 
                and military officers credibly alleged to have 
                committed such crimes are removed from positions of 
                command authority until the completion of judicial 
                proceedings; and
                    (C) the Government of Colombia is continuing to 
                dismantle illegal armed groups, taking effective steps 
                to protect the rights of human rights defenders, 
                journalists, trade unionists, and other social 
                activities, and protecting the rights and territory of 
                indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities:
          Provided, That the limitations of this paragraph shall not 
        apply to funds made available under such heading for aviation 
        instruction and maintenance, and maritime and riverine security 
        programs.
    (c) Cuba.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'', not more than $15,000,000 shall be 
        made available for democracy programs for Cuba.
            (2) Of the funds made available under paragraph (1), not 
        less than $3,000,000 shall be made available to the United 
        States Agency for International Development to support--
                    (A) free enterprise and private business 
                organizations; and
                    (B) people-to-people educational and cultural 
                activities.
            (3) For purposes of paragraph (2), activities described in 
        such paragraph shall be considered democracy programs pursuant 
        to section 7032(c) of this Act, except that none of the funds 
        made available under such paragraph may be used for assistance 
        for the Government of Cuba.
            (4) Funds appropriated under title I of this Act may be 
        made available for--
                    (A) the operation of, and infrastructure and 
                security improvements to, United States diplomatic 
                facilities in Cuba; and
                    (B) costs associated with additional United States 
                diplomatic personnel in Cuba.
            (5) Notwithstanding any other provision of law enacted 
        prior to this Act, United States payments to the Inter-American 
        Development Bank (``IDB'') shall not be withheld if IDB awards 
        grants for the purpose of hiring consultants and the payment of 
        other costs related to technical assistance to facilitate 
        transparency, private sector development, and other structural 
        reforms of the Cuban economy:  Provided, That assistance under 
        this paragraph may not exceed $2,500,000 during fiscal year 
        2017.
    (d) Haiti.--
            (1) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not 
        more than $183,168,000 may be made available for assistance for 
        Haiti.
            (2) Certification.--Funds made available in paragraph (1) 
        may not be made available for assistance for the central 
        Government of Haiti unless the Secretary of State certifies and 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that such 
        government is taking effective steps, which are in addition to 
        steps taken during the previous calendar year, to--
                    (A) hold new, inclusive, transparent and credible 
                parliamentary and presidential elections and seat a new 
                Haitian Parliament and President;
                    (B) strengthen the rule of law in Haiti, including 
                by reducing pre-trial detention and selecting judges in 
                a transparent manner; respect the independence of the 
                judiciary; and improve governance by implementing 
                reforms to increase transparency and accountability;
                    (C) combat corruption, including by implementing 
                the anti-corruption law enacted in 2014 and prosecuting 
                corrupt officials; and
                    (D) increase government revenues, including by 
                implementing tax reforms, and increase expenditures on 
                public services.
            (3) Haitian coast guard.--The Government of Haiti shall be 
        eligible to purchase defense articles and services under the 
        Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) for the Coast 
        Guard.

                                 europe

    Sec. 7046. (a) Assistance for Ukraine.--Of the funds appropriated 
by this Act under titles III through VI, not less than $294,857,000 
shall be made available for assistance for Ukraine.
    (b) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
made available for assistance for a government of an Independent State 
of the former Soviet Union if such government directs any action in 
violation of the territorial integrity or national sovereignty of any 
other Independent State of the former Soviet Union, such as those 
violations included in the Helsinki Final Act:  Provided, That except 
as otherwise provided in section 7070(a) of this Act, funds may be made 
available without regard to the restriction in this subsection if the 
President determines that to do so is in the national security interest 
of the United States:  Provided further, That prior to executing the 
authority contained in the previous proviso the Secretary of State 
shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations on how such 
assistance supports the national security interest of the United 
States.
    (c) Section 907 of the Freedom Support Act.--Section 907 of the 
FREEDOM Support Act shall not apply to--
            (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
        title V of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 1424 of the 
        Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 (50 
        U.S.C. 2333) or non-proliferation assistance;
            (2) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
        Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2421);
            (3) any activity carried out by a member of the United 
        States and Foreign Commercial Service while acting within his 
        or her official capacity;
            (4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
        assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
        Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
            (5) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
        of 1945; or
            (6) humanitarian assistance.

                          war crimes tribunals

    Sec. 7047. (a) If the President determines that doing so will 
contribute to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other 
violations of international humanitarian law, the President may direct 
a drawdown pursuant to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 of up to $30,000,000 of commodities and services for the United 
Nations War Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the former 
Yugoslavia by the United Nations Security Council or such other 
tribunals or commissions as the Council may establish or authorize to 
deal with such violations, without regard to the ceiling limitation 
contained in paragraph (2) thereof:  Provided, That the determination 
required under this section shall be in lieu of any determinations 
otherwise required under section 552(c):  Provided further, That funds 
made available pursuant to this section shall be made available subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
available for a United States contribution to the International 
Criminal Court:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 705(b) of the 
Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001 (division A of Public Law 106-113) and 
consistent with section 2015 of the American Service-Members Protection 
Act, 2002, as amended, funds may be made available for technical 
assistance, training, assistance for victims, protection of witnesses, 
and law enforcement support related to international investigations, 
apprehensions, prosecutions, and adjudications of genocide, crimes 
against humanity, and war crimes:  Provided further, That the previous 
proviso shall not apply to American service members and other United 
States citizens or nationals, or to nationals of the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization (NATO) or major non-NATO allies initially 
designated pursuant to section 517(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961.

                             united nations

    Sec. 7048. (a) Transparency and Accountability.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated under title I and under the 
        heading ``International Organizations and Programs'' in title V 
        of this Act that are available for contributions to the United 
        Nations (including the Department of Peacekeeping Operations), 
        any United Nations agency, or the Organization of American 
        States, 15 percent may not be obligated for such organization, 
        department, or agency until the Secretary of State reports to 
        the Committees on Appropriations that the organization, 
        department, or agency is--
                    (A) posting on a publicly available Web site, 
                consistent with privacy regulations and due process, 
                regular financial and programmatic audits of such 
                organization, department, or agency, and providing the 
                United States Government with necessary access to such 
                financial and performance audits; and
                    (B) effectively implementing and enforcing policies 
                and procedures which reflect best practices for the 
                protection of whistleblowers from retaliation, 
                including best practices for--
                            (i) protection against retaliation for 
                        internal and lawful public disclosures;
                            (ii) legal burdens of proof;
                            (iii) statutes of limitation for reporting 
                        retaliation;
                            (iv) access to independent adjudicative 
                        bodies, including external arbitration; and
                            (v) results that eliminate the effects of 
                        proven retaliation.
            (2) The restrictions imposed by or pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) may be waived on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary of 
        State determines and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such waiver is necessary to avert or 
        respond to a humanitarian crisis.
    (b) Restrictions on United Nations Delegations and Organizations.--
            (1) None of the funds made available under title I of this 
        Act may be used to pay expenses for any United States 
        delegation to any specialized agency, body, or commission of 
        the United Nations if such agency, body, or commission is 
        chaired or presided over by a country, the government of which 
        the Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of section 
        6(j)(1) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 as continued 
        in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic 
        Powers Act (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)(1)), supports international 
        terrorism.
            (2) None of the funds made available under title I of this 
        Act may be used by the Secretary of State as a contribution to 
        any organization, agency, commission, or program within the 
        United Nations system if such organization, agency, commission, 
        or program is chaired or presided over by a country the 
        government of which the Secretary of State has determined, for 
        purposes of section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
        section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act, section 6(j)(1) of 
        the Export Administration Act of 1979, or any other provision 
        of law, is a government that has repeatedly provided support 
        for acts of international terrorism.
            (3) The Secretary of State may waive the restriction in 
        this subsection if the Secretary reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that to do so is in the national interest of the 
        United States.
    (c) United Nations Human Rights Council.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be made available in support of the United 
Nations Human Rights Council unless the Secretary of State determines 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that participation in 
the Council is important to the national interest of the United States 
and that the Council is taking steps to remove Israel as a permanent 
agenda item:  Provided, That such report shall include a description of 
the national interest served and the steps taken to remove Israel as a 
permanent agenda item:  Provided further, That the Secretary of State 
shall report to the Committees on Appropriations not later than 
September 30, 2017, on the resolutions considered in the United Nations 
Human Rights Council during the previous 12 months, and on steps taken 
to remove Israel as a permanent agenda item.
    (d) United Nations Relief and Works Agency.--Not later than 45 days 
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
report in writing to the Committees on Appropriations on whether the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) is--
            (1) utilizing Operations Support Officers in the West Bank, 
        Gaza, and other fields of operation to inspect UNRWA 
        installations and reporting any inappropriate use;
            (2) acting promptly to address any staff or beneficiary 
        violation of its own policies (including the policies on 
        neutrality and impartiality of employees) and the legal 
        requirements under section 301(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
        of 1961;
            (3) implementing procedures to maintain the neutrality of 
        its facilities, including implementing a no-weapons policy, and 
        conducting regular inspections of its installations, to ensure 
        they are only used for humanitarian or other appropriate 
        purposes;
            (4) taking necessary and appropriate measures to ensure it 
        is operating in compliance with the conditions of section 
        301(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and continuing 
        regular reporting to the Department of State on actions it has 
        taken to ensure conformance with such conditions;
            (5) taking steps to ensure the content of all educational 
        materials currently taught in UNRWA-administered schools and 
        summer camps is consistent with the values of human rights, 
        dignity, and tolerance and does not induce incitement;
            (6) not engaging in operations with financial institutions 
        or related entities in violation of relevant United States law, 
        and is taking steps to improve the financial transparency of 
        the organization; and
            (7) in compliance with the United Nations Board of 
        Auditors' biennial audit requirements and is implementing in a 
        timely fashion the Board's recommendations.
    (e) Prohibition of Payments to United Nations Members.--None of the 
funds appropriated or made available pursuant to titles III through VI 
of this Act for carrying out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be 
used to pay in whole or in part any assessments, arrearages, or dues of 
any member of the United Nations or, from funds appropriated by this 
Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, the costs for participation of another country's delegation at 
international conferences held under the auspices of multilateral or 
international organizations.
    (f) United Nations Capital Master Plan.--None of the funds made 
available in this Act may be used for the design, renovation, or 
construction of the United Nations Headquarters in New York.
    (g) Withholding Report.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations detailing the amount of funds available 
for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2017 for contributions to 
any organization, department, agency, or program within the United 
Nations system or any international program that are withheld from 
obligation or expenditure due to any provision of law:  Provided, That 
the Secretary of State shall update such report each time additional 
funds are withheld by operation of any provision of law:  Provided 
further, That the reprogramming of any withheld funds identified in 
such report, including updates thereof, shall be subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations.

         sexual exploitation and abuse in peacekeeping missions

    Sec. 7049. (a) Consequences.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall 
be made available for Department of State activities to reform the 
model memorandum of understanding (United Nations A/C.5/66/8) between 
the United Nations and any government of a country contributing 
personnel to United Nations peacekeeping missions, to include the 
following consequences if the United Nations Secretary-General has 
reason to believe that any such government is unwilling or unable to 
exercise the criminal or disciplinary jurisdiction assured by such 
government in paragraphs 7.22 and 7.23 of chapter 9 of such memorandum 
of understanding against personnel who are accused of violating such 
paragraphs--
            (1) the mandatory repatriation of any peacekeeping 
        personnel of such country from the peacekeeping operation where 
        the allegation or allegations arose; and
            (2) the prohibition of participation by such country in 
        future peacekeeping missions until the government of such 
        country takes appropriate investigative and punitive actions 
        against such personnel:
  Provided, That the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees not later than 180 days after 
enactment of this Act on the responses of members of the United Nations 
General Assembly to such reform efforts.
    (b) Withholding of Assistance.--The Secretary of State shall 
withhold assistance to any unit of the security forces of a foreign 
country if the Secretary has credible evidence that such unit has 
engaged in acts of sexual exploitation or abuse, including while 
serving in a United Nations peacekeeping mission, until the Secretary 
determines that the government of such country is taking effective 
steps to bring the responsible members of the security forces to 
justice and to prevent future incidents:  Provided, That the Secretary 
of State shall promptly notify the government of each country subject 
to any withholding of assistance pursuant to this subsection, and shall 
notify the appropriate congressional committees of such withholding not 
later than 10 days after a determination to withhold such assistance is 
made:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the maximum 
extent practicable, assist such government to bring the responsible 
members of the security forces to justice:  Provided further, That for 
purposes of this paragraph, the word ``assistance'' shall mean 
assistance appropriated under the headings ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
``International Military Education and Training'', and ``Foreign 
Military Financing Program'' in this Act, and assistance authorized 
pursuant to section 516 and 524 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
(22 U.S.C. 2321j and 2344) and section 23 of the Arms Export Control 
Act (22 U.S.C. 2763).
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the requirements of 
subsection (b), if the Secretary determines and reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations that it is important to the national 
security interest of the United States to do so, and includes a 
justification for such waiver.

                  prohibition on promotion of tobacco

    Sec. 7050.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, 
or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign country of 
restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except 
for restrictions which are not applied equally to all tobacco or 
tobacco products of the same type.

                       international conferences

    Sec. 7051.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 
employees of agencies or departments of the United States Government 
who are stationed in the United States, at any single international 
conference occurring outside the United States, unless the Secretary of 
State reports to the Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days in 
advance that such attendance is important to the national interest:  
Provided, That for purposes of this section the term ``international 
conference'' shall mean a conference attended by representatives of the 
United States Government and of foreign governments, international 
organizations, or nongovernmental organizations.

                aircraft transfer, coordination, and use

    Sec. 7052. (a) Transfer.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law or regulation, aircraft procured with funds appropriated by this 
Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs under the headings 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', ``International Narcotics Control 
and Law Enforcement'', ``Andean Counterdrug Initiative'', and ``Andean 
Counterdrug Programs'' may be used for any other program and in any 
region, including for the transportation of active and standby Civilian 
Response Corps personnel and equipment during a deployment:  Provided, 
That the responsibility for policy decisions and justification for the 
use of such transfer authority shall be the responsibility of the 
Secretary of State and the Deputy Secretary of State and this 
responsibility shall not be delegated.
    (b) Property Disposal.--The authority provided in subsection (a) 
shall apply only after the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations that the equipment is no longer 
required to meet programmatic purposes in the designated country or 
region:  Provided, That any such transfer shall be subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Aircraft Coordination.--
            (1) The uses of aircraft purchased or leased by the 
        Department of State and the United States Agency for 
        International Development with funds made available in this Act 
        or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
        State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be 
        coordinated under the authority of the appropriate Chief of 
        Mission:  Provided, That such aircraft may be used to 
        transport, on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, Federal 
        and non-Federal personnel supporting Department of State and 
        USAID programs and activities:  Provided further, That official 
        travel for other agencies for other purposes may be supported 
        on a reimbursable basis, or without reimbursement when 
        traveling on a space available basis:  Provided further, That 
        funds received by the Department of State for the use of 
        aircraft owned, leased, or chartered by the Department of State 
        may be credited to the Working Capital Fund of the Department 
        and shall be available for expenses related to the purchase, 
        lease, maintenance, chartering, or operation of such aircraft.
            (2) The requirement and authorities of this subsection 
        shall only apply to aircraft, the primary purpose of which is 
        the transportation of personnel.
    (d) Aircraft Operations and Maintenance.--To the maximum extent 
practicable, the costs of operations and maintenance, including fuel, 
of aircraft funded by this Act shall be borne by the recipient country.

   parking fines and real property taxes owed by foreign governments

    Sec. 7053.  The terms and conditions of section 7055 of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2011 (division F of Public Law 111-117) shall apply 
to this Act:  Provided, That the date ``September 30, 2009'' in 
subsection (f)(2)(B) of such section shall be deemed to be ``September 
30, 2016''.

                    landmines and cluster munitions

    Sec. 7054. (a) Landmines.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, demining equipment available to the United States Agency for 
International Development and the Department of State and used in 
support of the clearance of landmines and unexploded ordnance for 
humanitarian purposes may be disposed of on a grant basis in foreign 
countries, subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary of 
State may prescribe.
    (b) Cluster Munitions.--No military assistance shall be furnished 
for cluster munitions, no defense export license for cluster munitions 
may be issued, and no cluster munitions or cluster munitions technology 
shall be sold or transferred, unless--
            (1) the submunitions of the cluster munitions, after 
        arming, do not result in more than 1 percent unexploded 
        ordnance across the range of intended operational environments, 
        and the agreement applicable to the assistance, transfer, or 
        sale of such cluster munitions or cluster munitions technology 
        specifies that the cluster munitions will only be used against 
        clearly defined military targets and will not be used where 
        civilians are known to be present or in areas normally 
        inhabited by civilians; or
            (2) such assistance, license, sale, or transfer is for the 
        purpose of demilitarizing or permanently disposing of such 
        cluster munitions.

                 prohibition on publicity or propaganda

    Sec. 7055.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United 
States not authorized before the date of the enactment of this Act by 
Congress:  Provided, That not to exceed $25,000 may be made available 
to carry out the provisions of section 316 of the International 
Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533).

 continuous supervision and general direction of economic and military 
                               assistance

    Sec. 7056.  Under the direction of the President, the Secretary of 
State shall be responsible for the continuous supervision and general 
direction of economic assistance, law enforcement and justice sector 
assistance, military assistance, and military education and training 
programs, including but not limited to determining whether there shall 
be a military assistance (including civic action) or a military 
education and training program for a country and the value thereof, to 
the end that such programs are effectively integrated both at home and 
abroad and the foreign policy of the United States is best served 
thereby.

     united states agency for international development management

    Sec. 7057. (a) Authority.--Up to $93,000,000 of the funds made 
available in title III of this Act pursuant to or to carry out the 
provisions of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including 
funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
and Central Asia'', may be used by the United States Agency for 
International Development to hire and employ individuals in the United 
States and overseas on a limited appointment basis pursuant to the 
authority of sections 308 and 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980.
    (b) Restrictions.--
            (1) The number of individuals hired in any fiscal year 
        pursuant to the authority contained in subsection (a) may not 
        exceed 175.
            (2) The authority to hire individuals contained in 
        subsection (a) shall expire on September 30, 2018.
    (c) Conditions.--The authority of subsection (a) should only be 
used to the extent that an equivalent number of positions that are 
filled by personal services contractors or other non-direct hire 
employees of USAID, who are compensated with funds appropriated to 
carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'', are eliminated.
    (d) Program Account Charged.--The account charged for the cost of 
an individual hired and employed under the authority of this section 
shall be the account to which the responsibilities of such individual 
primarily relate:  Provided, That funds made available to carry out 
this section may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated 
by this Act in title II under the heading ``Operating Expenses''.
    (e) Foreign Service Limited Extensions.--Individuals hired and 
employed by USAID, with funds made available in this Act or prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs, pursuant to the authority of section 309 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980, may be extended for a period of up to 4 
years notwithstanding the limitation set forth in such section.
    (f) Disaster Surge Capacity.--Funds appropriated under title III of 
this Act to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
including funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, 
Eurasia and Central Asia'', may be used, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes, for the cost (including the support costs) 
of individuals detailed to or employed by USAID whose primary 
responsibility is to carry out programs in response to natural 
disasters, or man-made disasters subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Personal Services Contractors.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
to carry out chapter 1 of part I, chapter 4 of part II, and section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and title II of the Food for 
Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), may be used by USAID to employ up to 40 
personal services contractors in the United States, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, for the purpose of providing direct, interim 
support for new or expanded overseas programs and activities managed by 
the agency until permanent direct hire personnel are hired and trained: 
 Provided, That not more than 15 of such contractors shall be assigned 
to any bureau or office:  Provided further, That such funds 
appropriated to carry out title II of the Food for Peace Act (Public 
Law 83-480), may be made available only for personal services 
contractors assigned to the Office of Food for Peace.
    (h) Small Business.--In entering into multiple award indefinite-
quantity contracts with funds appropriated by this Act, USAID may 
provide an exception to the fair opportunity process for placing task 
orders under such contracts when the order is placed with any category 
of small or small disadvantaged business.
    (i) Senior Foreign Service Limited Appointments.--Individuals hired 
pursuant to the authority provided by section 7059(o) of the Department 
of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2011 (division F of Public Law 111-117) may be assigned to or support 
programs in Afghanistan or Pakistan with funds made available in this 
Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs.

                        global health activities

    Sec. 7058. (a) In General.--Funds appropriated by titles III and IV 
of this Act that are made available for global health programs 
including activities relating to research on, and the prevention, 
treatment and control of, HIV/AIDS may be made available 
notwithstanding any other provision of law except for provisions under 
the heading ``Global Health Programs'' and the United States Leadership 
Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 711; 
22 U.S.C. 7601 et seq.), as amended:  Provided, That of the funds 
appropriated under title III of this Act, not less than $585,000,000 
shall be made available for family planning/reproductive health, 
including in areas where population growth threatens biodiversity or 
endangered species.
    (b) Global Fund.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act that are 
available for a contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund), 10 percent should be withheld 
from obligation until the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations that the Global Fund is--
            (1) maintaining and implementing a policy of transparency, 
        including the authority of the Global Fund Office of the 
        Inspector General (OIG) to publish OIG reports on a public Web 
        site;
            (2) providing sufficient resources to maintain an 
        independent OIG that--
                    (A) reports directly to the Board of the Global 
                Fund;
                    (B) maintains a mandate to conduct thorough 
                investigations and programmatic audits, free from undue 
                interference; and
                    (C) compiles regular, publicly published audits and 
                investigations of financial, programmatic, and 
                reporting aspects of the Global Fund, its grantees, 
                recipients, sub-recipients, and Local Fund Agents;
            (3) effectively implementing and enforcing policies and 
        procedures which reflect best practices for the protection of 
        whistleblowers from retaliation, including best practices for--
                    (A) protection against retaliation for internal and 
                lawful public disclosures;
                    (B) legal burdens of proof;
                    (C) statutes of limitation for reporting 
                retaliation;
                    (D) access to independent adjudicative bodies, 
                including external arbitration; and
                    (E) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
                retaliation; and
            (4) implementing the recommendations contained in the 
        Consolidated Transformation Plan approved by the Board of the 
        Global Fund on November 21, 2011:
  Provided, That such withholding shall not be in addition to funds 
that are withheld from the Global Fund in fiscal year 2017 pursuant to 
the application of any other provision contained in this or any other 
Act.
    (c) Contagious Infectious Disease Outbreaks.--If the Secretary of 
State determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
an international infectious disease outbreak is sustained, severe, and 
is spreading internationally, or that it is in the national interest to 
respond to a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, funds 
appropriated by this Act under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', 
``Development Assistance'', ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
``Complex Crises Fund'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and ``Migration 
and Refugee Assistance'' may be made available to combat such 
infectious disease or public health emergency:  Provided, That funds 
made available pursuant to the authority of this subsection shall be 
subject to prior consultation with, and the regular notification 
procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

                            gender equality

    Sec. 7059. (a) Gender Equality.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be made available to promote gender equality in United States 
Government diplomatic and development efforts by raising the status, 
increasing the participation, and protecting the rights of women and 
girls worldwide.
    (b) Women's Leadership.--Of the funds appropriated by title III of 
this Act, not less than $50,000,000 shall be made available to increase 
leadership opportunities for women in countries where women and girls 
suffer discrimination due to law, policy, or practice, by strengthening 
protections for women's political status, expanding women's 
participation in political parties and elections, and increasing 
women's opportunities for leadership positions in the public and 
private sectors at the local, provincial, and national levels.
    (c) Gender-Based Violence.--
            (1)(A) Of the funds appropriated by titles III and IV of 
        this Act, not less than $157,270,000 shall be made available to 
        implement a multi-year strategy to prevent and respond to 
        gender-based violence in countries where it is common in 
        conflict and non-conflict settings:  Provided, That of the 
        funds appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic 
        Support Fund'', not less than $1,500,000 shall be transferred 
        to, and merged with, funds made available by this Act under the 
        heading ``International Organization and Programs'' for the 
        United Nations Office of the Special Representative of the 
        Secretary-General for Sexual Violence in Conflict.
            (B) Funds appropriated by titles III and IV of this Act 
        that are available to train foreign police, judicial, and 
        military personnel, including for international peacekeeping 
        operations, shall address, where appropriate, prevention and 
        response to gender-based violence and trafficking in persons, 
        and shall promote the integration of women into the police and 
        other security forces.
            (2) Department of State and United States Agency for 
        International Development gender programs shall incorporate 
        coordinated efforts to combat a variety of forms of gender-
        based violence, including child marriage, rape, female genital 
        cutting and mutilation, and domestic violence, among other 
        forms of gender-based violence in conflict and non-conflict 
        settings.
            (3) Of the funds appropriated under title III of this Act 
        and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
        State, foreign operations, and related programs, not less than 
        $5,000,000 shall be made available for the United Nations 
        Children's Fund for the purpose of supporting the Joint Program 
        on Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting to reduce the practice of 
        female genital mutilation/cutting, which shall be in addition 
        to funds otherwise available for such purposes in such Acts.
    (d) Women, Peace, and Security.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under the headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and 
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' should be made 
available to support a multi-year strategy to expand, and improve 
coordination of, United States Government efforts to empower women as 
equal partners in conflict prevention, peace building, transitional 
processes, and reconstruction efforts in countries affected by conflict 
or in political transition, and to ensure the equitable provision of 
relief and recovery assistance to women and girls.

                           sector allocations

    Sec. 7060. (a) Basic Education and Higher Education.--
            (1) Basic education.--
                    (A) Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
                this Act, up to $560,782,000 may be made available for 
                assistance for basic education, and such funds may be 
                made available notwithstanding any provision of law 
                that restricts assistance to foreign countries:  
                Provided, That such funds may only be made available 
                for each country at a funding level for basic education 
                that does not exceed that contained in the 
                Congressional Budget Justification, Foreign Operations, 
                Summary Tables, Fiscal Year 2017:  Provided further, 
                That such funds should only be used to implement the 
                stated objectives of basic education programs for each 
                Country Development Cooperation Strategy or similar 
                strategy regarding basic education established by the 
                United States Agency for International Development:  
                Provided further, That the USAID Administrator, 
                following consultation with the Committees on 
                Appropriations, may reprogram funds between countries, 
                except that no such reprogramming may result in an 
                overall funding level for basic education exceeding the 
                total amount justified for fiscal year 2017:  Provided 
                further, That for the purposes of funds made available 
                for basic education by this Act and prior Acts making 
                appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
                operations, and related programs, the term ``basic 
                education'' shall also include secondary education.
                    (B) Not later than 30 days after enactment of this 
                Act, the USAID Administrator shall report to the 
                Committees on Appropriations on the status of 
                cumulative unobligated balances and obligated, but 
                unexpended, balances in each country where USAID 
                provides basic education assistance and such report 
                shall also include details on the types of contracts 
                and grants provided and the goals and objectives of 
                such assistance:  Provided, That the USAID 
                Administrator shall update such report on a quarterly 
                basis during fiscal year 2017:  Provided further, That 
                if the USAID Administrator determines that any 
                unobligated balances of funds specifically designated 
                for assistance for basic education in prior Acts making 
                appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
                operations, and related programs are in excess of the 
                absorptive capacity of recipient countries, such funds 
                may be made available for other programs authorized 
                under chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act 
                of 1961, notwithstanding such funding designation:  
                Provided further, That the authority of the previous 
                proviso shall be subject to prior consultation with, 
                and the regular notification procedures of, the 
                Committees on Appropriations.
                    (C) Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
                this Act for assistance for basic education programs, 
                not less than $70,000,000 shall be made available for a 
                contribution to multilateral partnerships that support 
                education.
            (2) Higher education.--Of the funds appropriated by title 
        III of this Act, not less than $226,352,000 shall be made 
        available for assistance for higher education, including not 
        less than $35,000,000 for new partnerships between higher 
        education institutions in the United States and developing 
        countries, including in sub-Saharan Africa:  Provided, That 
        such funds may be made available notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law that restricts assistance to foreign 
        countries, and shall be subject to the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) Development Programs.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Development Assistance'', not less than $26,000,000 
shall be made available for the American Schools and Hospitals Abroad 
program, and not less than $12,000,000 shall be made available for 
cooperative development programs of USAID.
    (c) Environment Programs.--
            (1) Authority.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the 
                provisions of sections 103 through 106, and chapter 4 
                of part II, of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 that 
                are made available to support environment programs may 
                be made available notwithstanding any other provision 
                of law, except for paragraph (B).
                    (B) Of the funds appropriated by this Act and prior 
                Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
                foreign operations, and related programs under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'', $237,000,000 shall 
                be made available as a contribution to the Green 
                Climate Fund:  Provided, That such funds shall not 
                include funds designated for Overseas Contingency 
                Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
                251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
                Deficit Control Act of 1985.
            (2) Conservation programs and limitations.--
                    (A) Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
                this Act, not less than $250,000,000 shall be made 
                available for biodiversity conservation programs.
                    (B) Not less than $55,000,000 of the funds 
                appropriated under titles III and IV of this Act shall 
                be made available to combat the transnational threat of 
                wildlife poaching and trafficking.
                    (C) None of the funds appropriated under title IV 
                of this Act may be made available for training or other 
                assistance for any military unit or personnel that the 
                Secretary of State determines has been credibly alleged 
                to have participated in wildlife poaching or 
                trafficking, unless the Secretary reports to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that to do so is in the 
                national security interests of the United States.
                    (D) Funds appropriated by this Act for biodiversity 
                programs shall not be used to support the expansion of 
                industrial scale logging or any other industrial scale 
                extractive activity into areas that were primary/intact 
                tropical forests as of December 30, 2013, and the 
                Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
                States executive directors of each international 
                financial institutions (IFI) to vote against any 
                financing of any such activity.
            (3) Large dams.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        instruct the United States executive director of each IFI that 
        it is the policy of the United States to vote in relation to 
        any loan, grant, strategy, or policy of such institution to 
        support the construction of any large dam consistent with the 
        criteria set forth in Senate Report 114-79, while also 
        considering whether the project involves important foreign 
        policy objectives.
            (4) Sustainable landscapes.--Of the funds appropriated 
        under title III of this Act, not less than $123,500,000 shall 
        be made available for sustainable landscapes programs.
    (d) Food Security and Agricultural Development.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by title III of this Act, not 
        less than $1,053,000,000 should be made available for food 
        security and agricultural development programs, of which not 
        less than $32,000,000 shall be made available for the Feed the 
        Future Innovation Labs:  Provided, That such funds may be made 
        available notwithstanding any other provision of law to prevent 
        or address food shortages, and for a United States contribution 
        to the endowment of the Global Crop Diversity Trust.
            (2) Funds appropriated under title III of this Act may be 
        made available as a contribution to the Global Agriculture and 
        Food Security Program if such contribution will not cause the 
        United States to exceed 33 percent of the total amount of funds 
        contributed to such Program.
    (e) Microenterprise and Microfinance.--Of the funds appropriated by 
this Act, not less than $265,000,000 should be made available for 
microenterprise and microfinance development programs for the poor, 
especially women.
    (f) Programs To Combat Trafficking in Persons and Modern Slavery.--
            (1) Trafficking in persons.--Of the funds appropriated by 
        this Act under the headings ``Development Assistance'', 
        ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
        Central Asia'', and ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
        Enforcement'', not less than $60,000,000 shall be made 
        available for activities to combat trafficking in persons 
        internationally.
            (2) Modern slavery.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the headings ``Development Assistance'' and 
        ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', in 
        addition to funds made available pursuant to paragraph (1), 
        $25,000,000 shall be made available for a grant or grants, to 
        be awarded on an open and competitive basis, to reduce the 
        prevalence of modern slavery globally:  Provided, That such 
        funds may only be made available in fiscal year 2017 to carry 
        out the End Modern Slavery Initiative Act of 2015 (S. 553, 
        114th Congress), as reported to the Senate, if such bill is 
        enacted into law:  Provided further, That if such bill is not 
        enacted into law by the end of the 114th Congress, funds made 
        available pursuant to this subsection shall be made available 
        for other programs to combat trafficking in persons and modern 
        slavery, following consultation with the appropriate 
        congressional committees.
            (3) Program coordination.--The Secretary of State and USAID 
        Administrator, as appropriate, shall establish and implement 
        guidelines to ensure that programs funded by paragraphs (1) and 
        (2) to combat trafficking in persons and modern slavery are 
        coordinated and complementary, and not duplicative.
    (g) Reconciliation Programs.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, 
Eurasia and Central Asia'', and ``Development Assistance'', not less 
than $26,000,000 shall be made available to support people-to-people 
reconciliation programs which bring together individuals of different 
ethnic, religious, and political backgrounds from areas of civil strife 
and war:  Provided, That the USAID Administrator shall consult with the 
Committees on Appropriations, prior to the initial obligation of funds, 
on the uses of such funds, and such funds shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided further, That to the maximum extent practicable, such funds 
shall be matched by sources other than the United States Government.
    (h) Water and Sanitation.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act, 
not less than $400,000,000 shall be made available for water supply and 
sanitation projects pursuant to the Senator Paul Simon Water for the 
Poor Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-121), of which not less than 
$145,000,000 shall be for programs in sub-Saharan Africa, and of which 
not less than $14,000,000 shall be made available for programs to 
design and build safe, public latrines in Africa and Asia.

                overseas private investment corporation

    Sec. 7061. (a) Transfer of Funds.--Whenever the President 
determines that it is in furtherance of the purposes of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, up to a total of $20,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under title III of this Act may be transferred to, and 
merged with, funds appropriated by this Act for the Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation Program Account, to be subject to the terms and 
conditions of that account:  Provided, That such funds shall not be 
available for administrative expenses of the Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation:  Provided further, That designated funding 
levels in this Act shall not be transferred pursuant to this section:  
Provided further, That the exercise of such authority shall be subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (b) Authority.--Notwithstanding section 235(a)(2) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, the authority of subsections (a) through (c) of 
section 234 of such Act shall remain in effect until September 30, 
2017.

                           arms trade treaty

    Sec. 7062.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the 
Senate approves a resolution of ratification for the Treaty.

                           inspectors general

    Sec. 7063. (a) Prohibition on Use of Funds.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be used to deny an Inspector General 
funded under this Act timely access to any records, documents, or other 
materials available to the department or agency of the United States 
Government over which such Inspector General has responsibilities under 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent or 
impede the access of such Inspector General to such records, documents, 
or other materials, under any provision of law, except a provision of 
law that expressly refers to such Inspector General and expressly 
limits the right of access of such Inspector General.
    (b) Timely Access.--A department or agency of the United States 
Government covered by this section shall provide its Inspector General 
access to all records, documents, and other materials in a timely 
manner.
    (c) Compliance.--Each Inspector General covered by this section 
shall ensure compliance with statutory limitations on disclosure 
relevant to the information provided by the department or agency over 
which that Inspector General has responsibilities under the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (d) Report Requirement.--Each Inspector General covered by this 
section shall report to the Committees on Appropriations within 5 
calendar days of any failures by any department or agency of the United 
States Government to provide its Inspector General access to all 
requested records, documents, and other materials.

    reporting requirements concerning individuals detained at naval 
                     station, guantanamo bay, cuba

    Sec. 7064.  Not later than 5 days after the conclusion of an 
agreement with a country, including a state with a compact of free 
association with the United States, to receive by transfer or release 
individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
Cuba, the Secretary of State shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations in writing of the terms of the agreement, including 
whether funds appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs will be made available for assistance for such country 
pursuant to such agreement.

                    north american development bank

    Sec. 7065.  Part 2 of subtitle D of title V of Public Law 103-182, 
as amended (22 U.S.C. 290m et seq.), is further amended by adding at 
the end thereof the following new section:

``SEC. 547. FIRST CAPITAL INCREASE.

    ``(a) Subscription Authorized.--
            ``(1) The Secretary of the Treasury may subscribe on behalf 
        of the United States to 150,000 additional shares of the 
        capital stock of the Bank.
            ``(2) Any subscription by the United States to the capital 
        stock of the Bank shall be effective only to such extent and in 
        such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
    ``(b) Limitations on Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In order to pay for the increase in the United States 
        subscription to the Bank under subsection (a), there are 
        authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, 
        $1,500,000,000 for payment by the Secretary of the Treasury.
            ``(2) Of the amount authorized to be appropriated under 
        paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) $225,000,000 shall be for paid in shares of 
                the Bank; and
                    ``(B) $1,275,000,000 shall be callable shares of 
                the Bank.''.

                     prohibition on use of torture

    Sec. 7066. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds made available in 
this Act may be used to support or justify the use of torture, cruel, 
or inhumane treatment by any official or contract employee of the 
United States Government.
    (b) Assistance to Eliminate Torture.--Funds appropriated under 
titles III and IV of this Act shall be made available, notwithstanding 
section 660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and following 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations, for assistance to 
eliminate torture by foreign police, military or other security forces 
in countries receiving assistance from funds appropriated by this Act.

                              extradition

    Sec. 7067. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated in this 
Act may be used to provide assistance (other than funds provided under 
the headings ``International Disaster Assistance'', ``Complex Crises 
Fund'', ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', 
``Migration and Refugee Assistance'', ``United States Emergency Refugee 
and Migration Assistance Fund'', and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
terrorism, Demining and Related Assistance'') for the central 
government of a country which has notified the Department of State of 
its refusal to extradite to the United States any individual indicted 
for a criminal offense for which the maximum penalty is life 
imprisonment without the possibility of parole or for killing a law 
enforcement officer, as specified in a United States extradition 
request.
    (b) Clarification.--Subsection (a) shall only apply to the central 
government of a country with which the United States maintains 
diplomatic relations and with which the United States has an 
extradition treaty and the government of that country is in violation 
of the terms and conditions of the treaty.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the restriction in 
subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary certifies to 
the Committees on Appropriations that such waiver is important to the 
national interests of the United States.

                 commercial leasing of defense articles

    Sec. 7068.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms Export 
Control Act may be used to provide financing to Israel, Egypt, and the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and major non-NATO allies 
for the procurement by leasing (including leasing with an option to 
purchase) of defense articles from United States commercial suppliers, 
not including Major Defense Equipment (other than helicopters and other 
types of aircraft having possible civilian application), if the 
President determines that there are compelling foreign policy or 
national security reasons for those defense articles being provided by 
commercial lease rather than by government-to-government sale under 
such Act.

                   community-based police assistance

    Sec. 7069. (a) Authority.--Funds made available by titles III and 
IV of this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 1 of part I and 
chapters 4 and 6 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may 
be used, notwithstanding section 660 of that Act, to enhance the 
effectiveness and accountability of civilian police authority through 
training and technical assistance in human rights, the rule of law, 
anti-corruption, strategic planning, and through assistance to foster 
civilian police roles that support democratic governance, including 
assistance for programs to prevent conflict, respond to disasters, 
address gender-based violence, and foster improved police relations 
with the communities they serve.
    (b) Notification.--Assistance provided under subsection (a) shall 
be subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                           russian aggression

    Sec. 7070. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
Act may be made available for assistance for the central Government of 
the Russian Federation.
    (b) Annexation of Crimea.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for assistance for the central government of a 
        country that the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
        the Committees on Appropriations has taken affirmative steps 
        intended to support or be supportive of the Russian Federation 
        annexation of Crimea:  Provided, That except as otherwise 
        provided in subsection (a), the Secretary may waive the 
        restriction on assistance required by this paragraph if the 
        Secretary certifies to such Committees that to do so is in the 
        national interest of the United States, and includes a 
        justification for such interest.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for--
                    (A) the implementation of any action or policy that 
                recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation 
                over Crimea;
                    (B) the facilitation, financing, or guarantee of 
                United States Government investments in Crimea, if such 
                activity includes the participation of Russian 
                Government officials, or other Russian owned or 
                controlled financial entities; or
                    (C) assistance for Crimea, if such assistance 
                includes the participation of Russian Government 
                officials, or other Russian owned or controlled 
                financial entities.
            (3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States executive directors of each international financial 
        institution to vote against any assistance by such institution 
        (including but not limited to any loan, credit, or guarantee) 
        for any program that violates the sovereignty or territorial 
        integrity of Ukraine.
            (4) The requirements and limitations of this subsection 
        shall cease to be in effect if the Secretary of State certifies 
        and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
        Government of Ukraine has reestablished sovereignty over 
        Crimea.
    (c) Occupation of the Georgian Territories of Abkhazia and 
Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for assistance for the central government of a 
        country that the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
        the Committees on Appropriations has recognized the 
        independence of, or has established diplomatic relations with, 
        the Russian occupied Georgian territories of Abkhazia and 
        Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia:  Provided, That the Secretary 
        shall publish on the Department of State Web site a list of any 
        such central governments in a timely manner:  Provided further, 
        That the Secretary may waive the restriction on assistance 
        required by this paragraph if the Secretary certifies to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that to do so is in the national 
        interest of the United States, and includes a justification for 
        such interest.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available to support the Russian occupation of the Georgian 
        territories of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia:  
        Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
        United States executive directors of each international 
        financial institution to vote against any assistance by such 
        institution for any program that violates the sovereignty and 
        territorial integrity of Georgia.
            (3) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a report on actions taken by the 
        Russian Federation to further consolidate the occupation of the 
        Georgian territories of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South 
        Ossetia, including the estimated annual costs of occupation.
    (d) Assistance to Reduce Vulnerability and Pressure.--Funds 
appropriated by this Act and made available for assistance for the 
Eastern Partnership countries shall be made available to advance the 
implementation of Association Agreements and trade agreements with the 
European Union, and to reduce their vulnerability to external economic 
and political pressure from the Russian Federation.
    (e) Democracy Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
made available to support democracy programs in the Russian Federation, 
including to promote Internet freedom, and shall also be made available 
to support the democracy and rule of law strategy required by section 
7071(d) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).
    (f) Reports.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State shall update the reports required by section 
7071(b)(2), (c), and (e) of the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K 
of Public Law 113-76).

                      international monetary fund

    Sec. 7071. (a) Extensions.--The terms and conditions of sections 
7086(b) (1) and (2) and 7090(a) of the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F 
of Public Law 111-117) shall apply to this Act.
    (b) Repayment.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF) to seek to ensure that any loan will be repaid to the IMF before 
other private creditors.

                    special defense acquisition fund

    Sec. 7072.  Not to exceed $900,000,000 may be obligated pursuant to 
section 51(c)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act for the purposes of the 
Special Defense Acquisition Fund (the Fund), to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That the provision of 
defense articles and defense services to foreign countries or 
international organizations from the Fund shall be subject to the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State.

       stability and development in regions impacted by extremism

    Sec. 7073. (a) Countering Foreign Fighters and Extremist 
Organizations, and Strengthening the State System.--
            (1) Funds appropriated under titles III and IV of this Act 
        shall be made available to implement the Department of State 
        and USAID Joint Strategy on Countering Violent Extremism, May 
        2016 (the Joint Strategy) submitted to the Committees on 
        Appropriations pursuant to section 7073 of the Department of 
        State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
        Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 114-113), and for programs 
        to strengthen governance and protection of human rights in 
        countries impacted by extremism:  Provided, That the Secretary 
        of State shall ensure that programs implemented pursuant to 
        this paragraph are coordinated with and complement the efforts 
        of other United States Government agencies and international 
        partners:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall also 
        ensure that information gained through the conduct of such 
        programs is shared in a timely manner with relevant United 
        States Government agencies and other international partners, as 
        appropriate:  Provided further, That not later than September 
        30, 2018, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
        Committees on Appropriations detailing the programs, on a 
        country-by-country basis, conducted, or intended to be 
        conducted, under the strategic objectives for countering 
        foreign terrorist fighters and extremism contained in the Joint 
        Strategy.
            (2) Funds appropriated under titles III and IV of this Act 
        shall be made available for security and democracy programs in 
        countries whose stability and legitimacy are directly 
        threatened by violence against state institutions by 
        extremists, including at the national and local levels, and in 
        fragile states bordering such countries.
            (3) Funds made available pursuant to this subsection are 
        subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) Countries Impacted by Significant Refugee Populations or 
Internally Displaced Persons.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
headings ``Development Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'' shall 
be made available for programs in countries affected by significant 
populations of internally displaced persons or refugees to--
            (1) expand and improve host government social services and 
        basic infrastructure to accommodate the needs of such 
        populations and persons;
            (2) alleviate the social and economic strains placed on 
        host communities;
            (3) improve coordination of such assistance in a more 
        effective and sustainable manner; and
            (4) leverage increased assistance from donors other than 
        the United States Government for central governments and local 
        communities in such countries:
  Provided, That the Secretary of State shall periodically inform the 
Committees on Appropriations of the amount and specific uses of funds 
made available for the purposes of this subsection.
    (c) Women and Girls at Risk From Extremism.--
            (1) Assistance.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
        $28,000,000 shall be made available only for grants and 
        cooperative agreements to support women and girls in 
        predominantly Muslim countries and other countries who are at 
        risk from extremism and conflict, including for activities to--
                    (A) empower women and girls to counter extremism, 
                including family-oriented activities and through 
                culturally appropriate programs to promote tolerance 
                and pluralism and the development and dissemination of 
                early warning and response systems;
                    (B) address the needs of women and girls adversely 
                impacted by extremism and conflict, including through 
                comprehensive programs that provide immediate and 
                sustained livelihood support, psychosocial services, 
                including for family members, and the establishment of 
                safe houses and other centers dedicated to the 
                empowerment and protection of women and girls;
                    (C) document crimes committed by extremists against 
                women and girls in predominantly Muslim countries and 
                other countries, and support investigations and 
                prosecutions of such crimes, as appropriate, including 
                forensic assistance and exhumation of mass graves;
                    (D) increase the participation and influence of 
                women in formal and informal political processes and 
                institutions at the local level and within traditional 
                governing structures, including through the use of 
                social media and training programs;
                    (E) support reconciliation programs between 
                impacted minority, religious, and ethnic groups and the 
                broader community;
                    (F) support the establishment and implementation of 
                legal reforms and protections for women and girls at 
                the national and local government levels; and
                    (G) create and sustain networks for women and girls 
                to collectively safeguard their rights on a regional 
                basis.
            (2) Responsibility of funds.--The Ambassador-at-Large for 
        Global Women's Issues, Department of State, and the Under 
        Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights, 
        Department of State, in consultation with the Administrator of 
        the United States Agency for International Development, shall 
        be responsible for the uses of such funds.
            (3) Inter-agency strategy, report, and notification 
        requirement.--
                    (A) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
                Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
                USAID Administrator, shall submit to the appropriate 
                congressional committees an inter-agency strategy to 
                support women and girls in predominantly Muslim 
                countries and other countries who are at risk from 
                extremism and conflict, including estimated funding 
                requirements for programs and activities through fiscal 
                year 2020 and a description of the monitoring and 
                evaluation protocols for such programs:  Provided, That 
                such strategy shall be coordinated with, and 
                complement, the policies and objectives in the United 
                States National Plan on Women, Peace, and Security, 
                December 2011; the United States Strategy to Prevent 
                and Respond to Gender-Based Violence Globally, 2012; 
                and USAID's Gender Equality and Female Empowerment 
                Policy, March 2012.
                    (B) Not later than 180 days after enactment of this 
                Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
                USAID Administrator, shall submit a report to the 
                appropriate congressional committees detailing all 
                gender programs supported during the past two fiscal 
                years with funds made available by prior Acts making 
                appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
                operations, and related programs:  Provided, That such 
                report shall include programs that--
                            (i) address women's economic and political 
                        participation and empowerment;
                            (ii) support women in peace and security; 
                        and
                            (iii) prevent and respond to gender-based 
                        violence.
                    (C) Funds made available pursuant to paragraph (1) 
                shall be in addition to amounts available by this Act 
                for such purposes, and shall be subject to the regular 
                notification procedures of the Committees on 
                Appropriations.
    (d) Comprehensive Plan to Prevent and Address Extremism.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made available for the Near 
        East and Africa Relief and Recovery Fund shall be made 
        available for the United States Institute of Peace to develop a 
        comprehensive plan (the Plan) to prevent and address the 
        underlying causes of extremism in the Sahel, Horn of Africa, 
        and Near East regions.
            (2) The United States Institute of Peace shall consult with 
        the Committees on Appropriations prior to developing the Plan:  
        Provided, That the Plan shall include--
                    (A) a whole-of-government strategy to prevent and 
                address the underlying causes of extremism in the 
                Sahel, Horn of Africa, and Near East regions, including 
                identification of contributing factors to such 
                extremism and specific actions to mitigate such 
                factors:  Provided, That such strategy and actions 
                shall be developed in consultation with relevant United 
                States Government agencies, foreign governments, 
                foundations, the private sector, and local and 
                international civil society organizations, as 
                appropriate;
                    (B) a multi-year estimate of the costs associated 
                with the implementation of the Plan, including 
                consideration of funding made available for the Plan 
                from relevant United States Government agencies, other 
                international donors, foundations, the public sector, 
                and respective foreign governments in the Sahel, Horn 
                of Africa, and Near East regions;
                    (C) a description of appropriate inter-agency 
                coordinating options for the Plan, and identification 
                of impediments in policy, law, or regulation in 
                countries in the Sahel, Horn of Africa, and Near East 
                regions that might impede implementation of the Plan;
                    (D) consideration of specific conditions on 
                assistance for countries included in the Plan, 
                including cost-matching requirements by foreign 
                governments, as appropriate;
                    (E) an assessment of the ability and willingness of 
                each government in the Sahel, Horn of Africa, and Near 
                East regions to support implementation of the Plan;
                    (F) detailed protocols for monitoring the 
                implementation of the Plan and assessing results; and
                    (G) a proposed pilot program designed for a country 
                or countries in the Sahel, Horn of Africa, and Near 
                East regions that applies the strategy and actions 
                developed under the Plan.
            (3) The Department of State and USAID, in coordination with 
        other relevant United States Government agencies, shall jointly 
        review the proposed pilot program required under subparagraph 
        (G) and implement a new pilot program based on such proposed 
        pilot program beginning in fiscal year 2018.

                            enterprise funds

    Sec. 7074. (a) Notification Requirement.--None of the funds made 
available under titles III through VI of this Act may be made available 
for Enterprise Funds unless the appropriate congressional committees 
are notified at least 15 days in advance.
    (b) Distribution of Assets Plan.--Prior to the distribution of any 
assets resulting from any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of an 
Enterprise Fund, in whole or in part, the President shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a plan for the distribution of the 
assets of the Enterprise Fund.
    (c) Transition or Operating Plan.--Prior to a transition to and 
operation of any private equity fund or other parallel investment fund 
under an existing Enterprise Fund, the President shall submit such 
transition or operating plan to the appropriate congressional 
committees.

               use of funds in contravention of this act

    Sec. 7075.  If the President makes a determination not to comply 
with any provision of this Act on constitutional grounds, the head of 
the relevant Federal agency shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations in writing within 5 days of such determination, the 
basis for such determination and any resulting changes to program and 
policy.

                            budget documents

    Sec. 7076. (a) Operating Plans.--Not later than 45 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, each department, agency, or organization 
funded in titles I, II, and VI of this Act, and the Department of the 
Treasury and Independent Agencies funded in title III of this Act, 
including the Inter-American Foundation and the United States African 
Development Foundation, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations an operating plan for funds appropriated to such 
department, agency, or organization in such titles of this Act, or 
funds otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 2017, that 
provides details of the uses of such funds at the program, project, and 
activity level:  Provided, That such plans shall include, as 
applicable, a comparison between the congressional budget justification 
funding levels, the most recent congressional directives or approved 
funding levels, and the funding levels proposed by the department or 
agency; and a clear, concise, and informative description/
justification:  Provided further, That if such department, agency, or 
organization receives an additional amount under the same heading in 
title VIII of this Act, operating plans required by this subsection 
shall include consolidated information on all such funds:  Provided 
further, That operating plans that include changes in levels of funding 
for programs, projects, and activities specified in the congressional 
budget justification, in this Act, or amounts specifically designated 
in the respective tables included in the report accompanying this Act, 
as applicable, shall be subject to the notification and reprogramming 
requirements of section 7015 of this Act.
    (b) Spend Plans.--
            (1) Prior to the initial obligation of funds, the Secretary 
        of State or Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development, as appropriate, shall submit to the 
        Committees on Appropriations a spend plan for funds made 
        available by this Act, for--
                    (A) the regional security initiatives listed under 
                the heading ``Reports, Notifications, and Spend Plans'' 
                in the report accompanying this Act; and
                    (B) democracy programs and sectors enumerated in 
                subsections (a), (c)(2), (d)(1), (f), and (h) of 
                section 7060 of this Act.
            (2) Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations a detailed spend plan for funds made available 
        by this Act under the heading ``Department of the Treasury, 
        International Affairs Technical Assistance'' in title III.
    (c) Spending Report.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, the USAID Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a detailed report on spending of funds made available 
during fiscal year 2016 under the heading ``Development Credit 
Authority''.
    (d) Notification.--The spend plan referenced in subsection (b) 
shall not be considered as meeting the notification requirements in 
this Act or under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

                     reports and records management

    Sec. 7077. (a) Public Posting of Reports.--
            (1) Requirement.--Any agency receiving funds made available 
        by this Act shall, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), post on 
        the publicly available Web site of such agency any report 
        required by this Act to be submitted to the Committees on 
        Appropriations, upon a determination by the head of such agency 
        that to do so is in the national interest.
            (2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a report 
        if--
                    (A) the public posting of such report would 
                compromise national security, including the conduct of 
                diplomacy; or
                    (B) the report contains proprietary, privileged, or 
                sensitive information.
            (3) Timing and intention.--The head of the agency posting 
        such report shall, unless otherwise provided for in this Act, 
        do so only after such report has been made available to the 
        Committees on Appropriations for not less than 45 days:  
        Provided, That any report required by this Act to be submitted 
        to the Committees on Appropriations shall include information 
        from the submitting agency on whether such report will be 
        publicly posted.
    (b) Requests for Documents.--None of the funds appropriated or made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be 
available to a nongovernmental organization, including any contractor, 
which fails to provide upon timely request any document, file, or 
record necessary to the auditing requirements of the Department of 
State and the United States Agency for International Development.
    (c) Records Management.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' and 
        ``Capital Investment Fund'' in title I, and ``Operating 
        Expenses'' and ``Capital Investment Fund'' in title II that are 
        made available to the Department of State and USAID may be made 
        available to support the use or establishment of email accounts 
        or email servers created outside the .gov domain or not fitted 
        for automated records management as part of a Federal 
        government records management program in contravention of the 
        Presidential and Federal Records Act Amendments of 2014 (Public 
        Law 113-187).
            (2) Directives.--The Secretary of State and USAID 
        Administrator shall--
                    (A) use funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                headings ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' and 
                ``Capital Investment Fund'' in title I, and ``Operating 
                Expenses'' and ``Capital Investment Fund'' in title II, 
                as appropriate, to improve Federal records management 
                pursuant to the Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C. Chapters 
                21, 29, 31, and 33) and other applicable Federal 
                records management statutes, regulations, or policies 
                for the Department of State and USAID;
                    (B) direct departing employees that all Federal 
                records generated by such employees, including senior 
                officials, belong to the Federal Government; and
                    (C) significantly improve the response time for 
                identifying and retrieving Federal records, including 
                requests made pursuant to the Freedom of Information 
                Act.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 30 days after enactment of this 
        Act, the Secretary of State and USAID Administrator shall each 
        submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations and to the 
        National Archives and Records Administration detailing the 
        extent to which each agency is in compliance with applicable 
        Federal records management statutes, regulations, and policies, 
        and steps taken to strengthen cybersecurity.

                        global internet freedom

    Sec. 7078. (a) Funding.--Of the funds available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2017 under the headings ``International Broadcasting 
Operations'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', and 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', not less than 
$50,500,000 shall be made available for programs to promote Internet 
freedom globally:  Provided, That such programs shall be prioritized 
for countries whose governments restrict freedom of expression on the 
Internet, and that are important to the national interests of the 
United States:  Provided further, That funds made available pursuant to 
this section shall be matched, to the maximum extent practicable, by 
sources other than the United States Government, including from the 
private sector.
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
        ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', and ``Assistance 
        for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' that are made available 
        pursuant to subsection (a) shall be--
                    (A) coordinated with other democracy programs 
                funded by this Act under such headings, and shall be 
                incorporated into country assistance and democracy 
                promotion strategies, as appropriate;
                    (B) made available to the Bureau of Democracy, 
                Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, for 
                programs to implement the May 2011, International 
                Strategy for Cyberspace; the Department of State 
                International Cyberspace Policy Strategy required by 
                section 402 of the Cybersecurity Act of 2015 (division 
                N of Public Law 114-113); and the comprehensive 
                strategy to promote Internet freedom and access to 
                information in Iran, as required by section 414 of the 
                Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 
                2012 (22 U.S.C. 8754);
                    (C) made available for programs that support the 
                efforts of civil society to counter the development of 
                repressive Internet-related laws and regulations, 
                including countering threats to Internet freedom at 
                international organizations; to combat violence against 
                bloggers and other users; and to enhance digital 
                security training and capacity building for democracy 
                activists;
                    (D) made available for research of key threats to 
                Internet freedom; the continued development of 
                technologies that provide or enhance access to the 
                Internet, including circumvention tools that bypass 
                Internet blocking, filtering, and other censorship 
                techniques used by authoritarian governments; and 
                maintenance of the technological advantage of the 
                United States Government over such censorship 
                techniques:  Provided, That the Secretary of State, in 
                consultation with the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of 
                the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), shall 
                coordinate any such research and development programs 
                with other relevant United States Government 
                departments and agencies in order to share information, 
                technologies, and best practices, and to assess the 
                effectiveness of such technologies; and
                    (E) coordinated by the Assistant Secretary for 
                Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of 
                State.
            (2) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``International Broadcasting Operations'' that are made 
        available pursuant to subsection (a) shall be--
                    (A) made available to the BBG only to provide tools 
                and techniques to access BBG digital content on Web 
                sites that are censored, and to work with such 
                broadcasters to promote and distribute such tools and 
                techniques, including digital security techniques;
                    (B) coordinated with programs funded by this Act 
                under the heading ``International Broadcasting 
                Operations'', and shall be incorporated into country 
                broadcasting strategies, as appropriate;
                    (C) coordinated by the BBG CEO to provide Internet 
                circumvention tools and techniques for audiences in 
                countries that are strategic priorities for the BBG and 
                in a manner consistent with the BBG Internet freedom 
                strategy; and
                    (D) made available for the research and development 
                of new tools or techniques authorized in paragraph (A) 
                only after the BBG CEO, in consultation with the 
                Secretary of State and other relevant United States 
                Government departments and agencies, evaluates the 
                risks and benefits of such new tools or techniques, and 
                establishes safeguards to minimize the use of such new 
                tools or techniques for illicit purposes.
    (c) Coordination and Spend Plans.--After consultation among the 
relevant agency heads to coordinate and de-conflict planned activities, 
but not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of State and the BBG CEO shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations spend plans for funds made available by this Act for 
programs to promote Internet freedom globally, which shall include a 
description of safeguards established by relevant agencies to ensure 
that such programs are not used for illicit purposes:  Provided, That 
the Department of State spend plan shall include funding for all such 
programs for all relevant Department of State and USAID offices and 
bureaus:  Provided further, That prior to the obligation of such funds, 
such offices and bureaus shall consult with the Assistant Secretary for 
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, to ensure that 
such programs support the Department of State Internet freedom 
strategy.

                  impact on jobs in the united states

    Sec. 7079.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under titles III through VI of this Act may be obligated or 
expended to provide--
            (1) any financial incentive to a business enterprise 
        currently located in the United States for the purpose of 
        inducing such an enterprise to relocate outside the United 
        States if such incentive or inducement is likely to reduce the 
        number of employees of such business enterprise in the United 
        States because United States production is being replaced by 
        such enterprise outside the United States;
            (2) assistance for any program, project, or activity that 
        contributes to the violation of internationally recognized 
        workers' rights, as defined in section 507(4) of the Trade Act 
        of 1974, of workers in the recipient country, including any 
        designated zone or area in that country:  Provided, That the 
        application of section 507(4)(D) and (E) of such Act should be 
        commensurate with the level of development of the recipient 
        country and sector, and shall not preclude assistance for the 
        informal sector in such country, micro and small-scale 
        enterprise, and smallholder agriculture;
            (3) any assistance to an entity outside the United States 
        if such assistance is for the purpose of directly relocating or 
        transferring jobs from the United States to other countries and 
        adversely impacts the labor force in the United States; or
            (4) for the enforcement of any rule, regulation, policy, or 
        guidelines implemented pursuant to--
                    (A) the third proviso of subsection 7079(b) of the 
                Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010;
                    (B) the modification proposed by the Overseas 
                Private Investment Corporation in November 2013 to the 
                Corporation's Environmental and Social Policy Statement 
                relating to coal; or
                    (C) the Supplemental Guidelines for High Carbon 
                Intensity Projects approved by the Export-Import Bank 
                of the United States on December 12, 2013,
        when enforcement of such rule, regulation, policy, or 
        guidelines would prohibit, or have the effect of prohibiting, 
        any coal-fired or other power-generation project the purpose of 
        which is to: (i) provide affordable electricity in 
        International Development Association (IDA)-eligible countries 
        and IDA-blend countries; and (ii) increase exports of goods and 
        services from the United States or prevent the loss of jobs 
        from the United States.

                          disability programs

    Sec. 7080. (a) Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act under 
the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be made available for 
programs and activities administered by the United States Agency for 
International Development to address the needs and protect and promote 
the rights of people with disabilities in developing countries, 
including initiatives that focus on independent living, economic self-
sufficiency, advocacy, education, employment, transportation, sports, 
and integration of individuals with disabilities, including for the 
cost of translation.
    (b) Management, Oversight, and Technical Support.--Of the funds 
made available pursuant to this section, 5 percent may be used for 
USAID for management, oversight, and technical support.

                         country transition plan

    Sec. 7081.  Any bilateral country assistance strategy developed 
after the date of enactment of this Act for the provision of assistance 
for a foreign country in this fiscal year and each fiscal year 
hereafter shall include a transition plan identifying end goals and 
options for winding down, within a targeted period of years, such 
bilateral assistance:  Provided, That such transition plan shall be 
developed by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development, the heads of other relevant Federal agencies, and 
officials of such foreign government and representatives of civil 
society, as appropriate.

                 consular and border security programs

    Sec. 7082. (a) Separate Fund.--There is established in the Treasury 
a separate fund to be known as the ``Consular and Border Security 
Programs'' account into which the following fees shall be deposited for 
the purposes of the consular and border security programs.
    (b) Machine-readable Visa Fee.--Section 103(d) of Public Law 107-
173 (8 U.S.C. 1713) is amended by striking ``credited as an offsetting 
collection to any appropriation for the Department of State'' and 
inserting ``deposited in the Consular and Border Security Programs 
account''.
    (c) Passport and Immigrant Visa Security Surcharges.--
            (1) The fourth paragraph under the heading ``Diplomatic and 
        Consular Programs'' in title IV of division B of Public Law 
        108-447 (8 U.S.C. 1714) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``and the consular protection of 
                U.S. citizens and their interests overseas'' after ``in 
                support of enhanced border security''; and
                    (B) by striking ``credited to this account'' and 
                inserting ``deposited in the Consular and Border 
                Security Programs account''.
            (2) Section 6 of Public Law 109-472 (8 U.S.C. 1714 note) is 
        amended by inserting ``and the consular protection of U.S. 
        citizens and their interests overseas'' after ``in support of 
        enhanced border security'' each place it appears.
    (d) Diversity Immigrant Lottery Fee.--Section 636 of title VI, 
division C of Public Law 104-208 (8 U.S.C. 1153 note) is amended by 
striking ``as an offsetting collection to any Department of State 
appropriation'' and inserting ``in the Consular and Border Security 
Programs account''.
    (e) Affidavit of Support Fee.--Section 232(c) of title II of 
division A of H.R. 3427 (106th Congress) (incorporated by reference by 
section 1000(a)(7) of division B of Public Law 106-113, as amended (8 
U.S.C. 1183a note), is further amended by striking ``as an offsetting 
collection to any Department of State appropriation'' and inserting 
``in the Consular and Border Security Programs account''.
    (f) Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative Surcharge.--Subsection 
(b)(1) of section 1 of the Passport Act of June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C. 
214(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``as an offsetting collection to the 
appropriate Department of State appropriation'' and inserting ``in the 
Consular and Border Security Programs account''.
    (g) Expedited Passport Fee.--The first proviso under the heading 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' in title V of Public Law 103-317 
(22 U.S.C. 214 note) is amended by inserting ``or in the Consular and 
Border Security Programs account'' after ``offsetting collection''.
    (h) Transfer of Funds.--
            (1) The unobligated balances of amounts available from fees 
        referenced under this section may be transferred to the 
        Consular and Border Security Programs account.
            (2) Funds deposited in or transferred to the Consular and 
        Border Security Programs account may be transferred between 
        funds appropriated under the heading ``Administration of 
        Foreign Affairs''.
            (3) The transfer authorities in this section shall be in 
        addition to any other transfer authority available to the 
        Department of State.
    (i) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect no later than October 1, 2017, and shall be implemented in a 
manner that ensures the fees collected, transferred, and used in fiscal 
year 2017 can be readily tracked.

                  border crossing card fee for minors

    Sec. 7083.  Section 410(a)(1)(A) of the Department of State and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105-277) is 
amended by striking ``a fee of $13'' and inserting ``a fee equal to one 
half the fee that would otherwise apply for processing a machine 
readable combined border crossing identification card and non-immigrant 
visa''.

         international family planning and reproductive health

    Sec. 7084. (a) United Nations Population Fund.--
            (1) Contribution.--Of the funds made available under the 
        heading ``International Organizations and Programs'' in this 
        Act for fiscal year 2017, $37,500,000 shall be made available 
        for the United Nations Population Fund (referred to in this 
        section as ``UNFPA'').
            (2) Availability of funds.--Funds appropriated under this 
        Act for UNFPA that are not made available for UNFPA because of 
        the operation of any provision of law shall be transferred to 
        the ``Global Health Programs'' account and shall be made 
        available for family planning, maternal, and reproductive 
        health activities, subject to the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
            (3) Prohibition on use of funds in china.--None of the 
        funds made available under this Act may be used by UNFPA for a 
        country program in the People's Republic of China.
            (4) Conditions on availability of funds.--Funds made 
        available under this Act for UNFPA may not be made available 
        unless--
                    (A) UNFPA maintains such funds in an account that 
                is separate from other UNFPA accounts and does not 
                commingle such funds with other funds; and
                    (B) UNFPA does not fund abortions.
    (b) Assistance for Foreign Nongovernmental Organizations.--The 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after section 104C the following:

``SEC. 104D. ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE.

    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, regulation, or 
policy, in determining eligibility for assistance under sections 104, 
104A, 104B, and 104C, a foreign nongovernmental organization--
            ``(1) shall not be ineligible for such assistance solely on 
        the basis of health or medical services, including counseling 
        and referral services, provided by such organization with non-
        United States Government funds if such services--
                    ``(A) are permitted in the country in which they 
                are being provided; and
                    ``(B) would not violate United States law if 
                provided in the United States; and
            ``(2) shall not be subject to requirements relating to the 
        use of non-United States Government funds for advocacy and 
        lobbying activities other than those that apply to United 
        States nongovernmental organizations receiving assistance under 
        this part.''.

                               TITLE VIII

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', 
$2,654,798,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, of which 
$2,109,934,000 is for Worldwide Security Protection and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That the Secretary of State may 
transfer up to $5,000,000 of the total funds made available under this 
heading to any other appropriation of any department or agency of the 
United States, upon the concurrence of the head of such department or 
agency, to support operations in and assistance for Afghanistan and to 
carry out the provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961:  
Provided further, That any such transfer shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under subsections (a) and (b) of section 7015 of 
this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                      office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$54,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, for the 
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) for 
reconstruction oversight:  Provided, That printing and reproduction 
costs shall not exceed amounts for such costs during fiscal year 2016:  
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
employee of SIGAR who completes at least 12 months of continuous 
service after the date of enactment of this Act or who is employed on 
the date on which SIGAR terminates, whichever occurs first, shall 
acquire competitive status for appointment to any position in the 
competitive service for which the employee possesses the required 
qualifications:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
Maintenance'', $1,238,800,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $1,228,000,000 shall be for Worldwide Security Upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      International Organizations

              contributions to international organizations

    For an additional amount for ``Contributions to International 
Organizations'', $96,240,000:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For an additional amount for ``Contributions for International 
Peacekeeping Activities'', $1,588,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'', $152,875,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        capital investment fund

    For an additional amount for ``Capital Investment Fund'', 
$133,840,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                   international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$1,919,421,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         transition initiatives

    For an additional amount for ``Transition Initiatives'', 
$37,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                          complex crises fund

    For an additional amount for ``Complex Crises Fund'', $20,000,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         economic support fund

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
$2,735,008,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

            assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia

    For an additional amount for ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'', $404,606,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' 
to respond to refugee crises, including in Africa, the Near East, South 
and Central Asia, and Europe and Eurasia, $2,127,114,000, to remain 
available until expended, except that such funds shall not be made 
available for the resettlement costs of refugees in the United States:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

     united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For an additional amount for ``United States Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance Fund'', $40,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $304,650,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2018:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For an additional amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
Demining and Related Programs'', $214,254,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For an additional amount for ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
$293,941,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing 
Program'', $1,044,553,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       additional appropriations

    Sec. 8001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated in this title and designated for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 are in 
addition to amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in this 
Act for fiscal year 2017.

                extension of authorities and conditions

    Sec. 8002.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this title, and designated for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, to appropriations accounts in this Act shall be 
available under the authorities and conditions applicable to such 
appropriations accounts.

                           transfer of funds

    Sec. 8003. (a)(1) Funds appropriated by this title in this Act 
under the headings ``Transition Initiatives'', ``Complex Crises Fund'', 
``Economic Support Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'' may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
appropriated by this title under such headings.
    (2) Funds appropriated by this title in this Act under the headings 
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', 
``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', 
``Peacekeeping Operations'', and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' 
may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by this 
title under such headings.
    (3) Of the funds appropriated by this title in this Act under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'', up to $400,000,000 may transferred 
to, and merged with, funds appropriated by this title under the heading 
``International Disaster Assistance''.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, not to 
exceed $25,000,000 from funds appropriated under the headings 
``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Peacekeeping 
Operations'', and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' by this title 
in this Act may be transferred to, and merged with, funds previously 
made available under the heading ``Global Security Contingency Fund''.
    (c) The transfer authority provided in subsection (a) may only be 
exercised to address contingencies.
    (d) The transfer authority provided in subsections (a) and (b) 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided, That such transfer authority is in addition to any transfer 
authority otherwise available under any other provision of law, 
including section 610 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which may 
be exercised by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this title.

                        designation requirement

    Sec. 8004.  Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 shall be available only if the President 
subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.

                          rescission of funds

    Sec. 8005.  Of the funds appropriated in prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs under the heading ``Bilateral Economic Assistance, 
Funds Appropriated to the President, Economic Support Fund'', 
$165,000,000 are rescinded:  Provided, That such amounts are designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  TITLE IX--MATTERS RELATING TO ISRAEL

SEC. 9001. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Combating BDS Act of 2016''.

SEC. 9002. AUTHORITY OF STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TO DIVEST FROM 
              ENTITIES THAT ENGAGE IN CERTAIN BOYCOTT, DIVESTMENT, OR 
              SANCTIONS ACTIVITIES TARGETING ISRAEL.

    (a) Authority To Divest.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, a State or local government may adopt and enforce measures that 
meet the requirements of subsection (b) to divest the assets of the 
State or local government from, or prohibit investment of the assets of 
the State or local government in--
            (1) an entity that the State or local government 
        determines, using credible information available to the public, 
        knowingly engages in a commerce-related or investment-related 
        boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity targeting Israel;
            (2) a successor entity or subunit of an entity described in 
        paragraph (1); or
            (3) an entity that owns or controls, is owned or controlled 
        by, or is under common ownership or control with, an entity 
        described in paragraph (1).
    (b) Requirements.--A State or local government that seeks to adopt 
or enforce a measure under subsection (a) shall meet the following 
requirements:
            (1) Notice.--The State or local government shall provide 
        written notice to each entity to which a measure under 
        subsection (a) is to be applied.
            (2) Timing.--The measure shall apply to an entity not 
        earlier than the date that is 90 days after the date on which 
        written notice is provided to the entity under paragraph (1).
            (3) Opportunity for hearing.--The State or local government 
        shall provide an opportunity to comment in writing to each 
        entity to which a measure is to be applied. If the entity 
        demonstrates to the State or local government that the entity 
        has not engaged in a commerce-related or investment-related 
        boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity targeting Israel, 
        the measure shall not apply to the entity.
            (4) Sense of congress on avoiding erroneous targeting.--It 
        is the sense of Congress that a State or local government 
        should not adopt a measure under subsection (a) with respect to 
        an entity unless the State or local government has made every 
        effort to avoid erroneously targeting the entity and has 
        verified that the entity engages in a commerce-related or 
        investment-related boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity 
        targeting Israel.
    (c) Notice to Department of Justice.--Not later than 30 days after 
adopting a measure pursuant to subsection (a), a State or local 
government shall submit written notice to the Attorney General 
describing the measure.
    (d) Nonpreemption.--A measure of a State or local government 
authorized under subsection (a) is not preempted by any Federal law.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section applies to any measure adopted by 
a State or local government before, on, or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (f) Rule of Construction.--
            (1) Authority of states.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        construed to abridge the authority of a State to issue and 
        enforce rules governing the safety, soundness, and solvency of 
        a financial institution subject to its jurisdiction or the 
        business of insurance pursuant to the Act of March 9, 1945 (59 
        Stat. 33, chapter 20; 15 U.S.C. 1011 et seq.) (commonly known 
        as the ``McCarran-Ferguson Act'').
            (2) Policy of the united states.--Nothing in this section 
        shall be construed to alter the established policy of the 
        United States concerning final status issues associated with 
        the Arab-Israeli conflict, including border delineation, that 
        can only be resolved through direct negotiations between the 
        parties.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Assets.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the term ``assets'' means any pension, retirement, 
                annuity, or endowment fund, or similar instrument, that 
                is controlled by a State or local government.
                    (B) Exception.--The term ``assets'' does not 
                include employee benefit plans covered by title I of 
                the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 
                U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
            (2) Boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity targeting 
        israel.--The term ``boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity 
        targeting Israel'' means any activity that is intended to 
        penalize, inflict economic harm on, or otherwise limit 
        commercial relations with Israel or persons doing business in 
        Israel or in Israeli-controlled territories for purposes of 
        coercing political action by, or imposing policy positions on, 
        the Government of Israel.
            (3) Entity.--The term ``entity'' includes--
                    (A) any corporation, company, business association, 
                partnership, or trust; and
                    (B) any governmental entity or instrumentality of a 
                government, including a multilateral development 
                institution (as defined in section 1701(c)(3) of the 
                International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 
                262r(c)(3))).
            (4) Investment.--The term ``investment'' includes--
                    (A) a commitment or contribution of funds or 
                property;
                    (B) a loan or other extension of credit; and
                    (C) the entry into or renewal of a contract for 
                goods or services.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, 
        American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and any 
        other territory or possession of the United States.
            (6) State or local government.--The term ``State or local 
        government'' includes--
                    (A) any State and any agency or instrumentality 
                thereof;
                    (B) any local government within a State and any 
                agency or instrumentality thereof; and
                    (C) any other governmental instrumentality of a 
                State or locality.

SEC. 9003. SAFE HARBOR FOR CHANGES OF INVESTMENT POLICIES BY ASSET 
              MANAGERS.

    Section 13(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
80a-13(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
        a semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) engage in any boycott, divestment, or 
                sanctions activity targeting Israel described in 
                section 9002 of the Combating BDS Act of 2016.''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2017''.
                                                       Calendar No. 541

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 3117

                          [Report No. 114-290]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and 
                          for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 29, 2016

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
