[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3186 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3186

   To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide for active 
 shooter and mass casualty incident response assistance, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 13, 2016

 Mr. Carper (for himself and Mr. Leahy) introduced the following bill; 
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide for active 
 shooter and mass casualty incident response assistance, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Active Shooter Preparedness 
Enhancement Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. ACTIVE SHOOTER AND MASS CASUALTY INCIDENT RESPONSE ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle H of title VIII of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 890B. ACTIVE SHOOTER AND MASS CASUALTY INCIDENT RESPONSE 
              ASSISTANCE.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney 
General and the heads of other Federal agencies as appropriate, shall 
develop and make available to State, local, tribal, territorial, 
private sector, and nongovernmental partners guidance to assist in the 
development of emergency action and response plans for active shooter 
and mass casualty incidents in public and private locations, including 
facilities that have been identified by the Department as potentially 
vulnerable targets.
    ``(b) Guidance.--Guidance developed and made available under 
subsection (a) may relate to the development of the following:
            ``(1) A strategy for properly responding to an active 
        shooter or mass casualty incident in a public or private 
        location, including evacuating and providing care to persons in 
        the location, with consideration given to the needs of persons 
        with disabilities.
            ``(2) A plan for establishing a unified command, including 
        identification of staging areas for law enforcement, fire 
        response, and medical personnel.
            ``(3) A schedule for regular testing of equipment used to 
        receive communications during an active shooter or mass 
        casualty incident.
            ``(4) A practiced method and plan to communicate with 
        occupants of a public or private location during an active 
        shooter or mass casualty incident.
            ``(5) A practiced method and plan to communicate with the 
        surrounding community regarding an active shooter or mass 
        casualty incident and the needs of Federal, State, and local 
        officials.
            ``(6) A plan for coordinating with volunteer organizations 
        to expedite assistance for victims.
            ``(7) A schedule for joint exercises and training.
            ``(8) A plan for outreach to facilities that have been 
        identified by the Department as potentially vulnerable targets.
            ``(9) Other planning documents, as determined by the 
        Secretary, including appropriate regionally focused products, 
        plans, training, and outreach.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in 
section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296; 
116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 890A the following:

``Sec. 890B. Active shooter and mass casualty incident response 
                            assistance.''.

SEC. 3. LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING FOR MASS CASUALTY AND ACTIVE SHOOTER 
              INCIDENTS.

    Section 2006(a)(2) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
607(a)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) through (I) as 
        subparagraphs (F) through (J), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
                    ``(E) training exercises to enhance preparedness 
                for and response to mass casualty and active shooter 
                incidents and security events at public and private 
                locations;''.

SEC. 4. CONSIDERATION OF ACTIVE SHOOTER THREATS.

    Section 2007(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
608(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following:
            ``(9) Active shooters.''.
                                 <all>
