[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2129 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 248
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2129

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, Energy and Water Development, and Departments of 
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and related programs 
 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 5, 2015

 Mr. Cochran (for himself, Mr. Moran, Mr. Alexander, and Ms. Collins) 
      introduced the following bill; which was read the first time

                            October 6, 2015

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, Energy and Water Development, and Departments of 
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and related programs 
 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as ``An Act Making Appropriations to Improve 
the Nation's Infrastructure and for Other Purposes, 2016''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
Sec. 4. Statement of appropriations.
       DIVISION A--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016

    DIVISION B--ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016

   DIVISION C-- DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, AND HOUSING AND URBAN 
       DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016

SEC. 3. REFERENCES.

    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.

SEC. 4. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2016.

       DIVISION A--AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG 
     ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016

                                TITLE I

                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                  Production, Processing and Marketing

                        Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $46,055,000, 
of which not to exceed $5,051,000 shall be available for the immediate 
Office of the Secretary; not to exceed $502,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Tribal Relations; not to exceed $250,000 shall be 
available for the Military Veterans Agricultural Liaison; not to exceed 
$1,496,000 shall be available for the Office of Homeland Security and 
Emergency Coordination; not to exceed $1,209,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Advocacy and Outreach; not to exceed $25,928,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, 
of which $25,124,000 shall be available for Departmental Administration 
to provide for necessary expenses for management support services to 
offices of the Department and for general administration, security, 
repairs and alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies and expenses 
not otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical and 
efficient work of the Department; not to exceed $3,869,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Assistant Secretary for Congressional 
Relations to carry out the programs funded by this Act, including 
programs involving intergovernmental affairs and liaison within the 
executive branch; and not to exceed $7,750,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Communications:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
Agriculture is authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office 
of the Office of the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the 
Secretary:  Provided further, That no appropriation for any office 
shall be increased or decreased by more than 5 percent:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $11,000 of the amount made available under 
this paragraph for the immediate Office of the Secretary shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, not 
otherwise provided for, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided 
further, That the amount made available under this heading for 
Departmental Administration shall be reimbursed from applicable 
appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to the holding 
of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558:  Provided further, That 
funds made available under this heading for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations may be transferred to agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture funded by this Act to maintain personnel 
at the agency level:  Provided further, That no funds made available 
under this heading for the Office of Assistant Secretary for 
Congressional Relations may be obligated after 30 days from the date of 
enactment of this Act, unless the Secretary has notified the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress on the allocation of these 
funds by USDA agency.

                          Executive Operations

                     office of the chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Economist, 
$16,777,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be for grants or cooperative 
agreements for policy research under 7 U.S.C. 3155.

                       national appeals division

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, 
$13,317,000.

                 office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
Analysis, $9,392,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $45,045,000, of which not less than $28,000,000 is for 
cybersecurity requirements of the Department.

                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer, $6,028,000.

           Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Civil Rights, $898,000.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $24,070,000.

                  Agriculture Buildings and Facilities

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
Law 92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 121, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for alterations and 
other actions needed for the Department and its agencies to consolidate 
unneeded space into configurations suitable for release to the 
Administrator of General Services, and for the operation, maintenance, 
improvement, and repair of Agriculture buildings and facilities, and 
for related costs, $53,618,000, to remain available until expended, for 
buildings operations and maintenance expenses:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may use unobligated prior year balances of an agency or 
office that are no longer available for new obligation to cover 
shortfalls incurred in prior or current year rental payments for such 
agency or office.

                     Hazardous Materials Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and the Resource Conservation 
and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $3,618,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That appropriations and funds 
available herein to the Department for Hazardous Materials Management 
may be transferred to any agency of the Department for its use in 
meeting all requirements pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-
Federal lands.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$95,294,000, including such sums as may be necessary for contracting 
and other arrangements with public agencies and private persons 
pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, and 
including not to exceed $125,000 for certain confidential operational 
expenses, including the payment of informants, to be expended under the 
direction of the Inspector General pursuant to Public Law 95-452 and 
section 1337 of Public Law 97-98.

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$44,383,000.

                            Office of Ethics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Ethics, $3,654,000.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Research, Education, and Economics, $898,000.

                       Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service, 
$85,373,000.

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service, $168,108,000, of which up to $41,842,000 shall be available 
until expended for the Census of Agriculture:  Provided, That amounts 
made available for the Census of Agriculture may be used to conduct 
Current Industrial Report surveys subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and (f).

                     Agricultural Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Research Service and for 
acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal 
cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges where the lands 
exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized by a payment of 
money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal ownership, 
$1,136,825,000:  Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the 
purchase of not to exceed one for replacement only:  Provided further, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of constructing 
any one building shall not exceed $375,000, except for headhouses or 
greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,200,000, and except for 
10 buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed 
$750,000 each, and the cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building or $375,000, whichever is greater:  Provided 
further, That the limitations on alterations contained in this Act 
shall not apply to modernization or replacement of existing facilities 
at Beltsville, Maryland:  Provided further, That appropriations 
hereunder shall be available for granting easements at the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center:  Provided further, That the foregoing 
limitations shall not apply to replacement of buildings needed to carry 
out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a):  Provided further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting easements at 
any Agricultural Research Service location for the construction of a 
research facility by a non-Federal entity for use by, and acceptable 
to, the Agricultural Research Service and a condition of the easements 
shall be that upon completion the facility shall be accepted by the 
Secretary, subject to the availability of funds herein, if the 
Secretary finds that acceptance of the facility is in the interest of 
the United States:  Provided further, That funds may be received from 
any State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for 
the purpose of establishing or operating any research facility or 
research project of the Agricultural Research Service, as authorized by 
law.

               National Institute of Food and Agriculture

                   research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
$791,096,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, 
specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture, Research and Education Activities'' in the report 
accompanying this Act:  Provided, That funds for research grants for 
1994 institutions, education grants for 1890 institutions, capacity 
building for non-land-grant colleges of agriculture, the agriculture 
and food research initiative, veterinary medicine loan repayment, 
multicultural scholars, graduate fellowship and institution challenge 
grants, and grants management systems shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That each institution eligible to receive 
funds under the Evans-Allen program receives no less than $1,000,000:  
Provided further, That funds for education grants for Alaska Native and 
Native Hawaiian-serving institutions be made available to individual 
eligible institutions or consortia of eligible institutions with funds 
awarded equally to each of the States of Alaska and Hawaii:  Provided 
further, That funds for education grants for 1890 institutions shall be 
made available to institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 
3221 and 3222:  Provided further, That not more than 5 percent of the 
amounts made available by this or any other Act to carry out the 
Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) may be 
retained by the Secretary of Agriculture to pay administrative costs 
incurred by the Secretary in carrying out that authority.

 hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities endowment fund

    For the Hispanic-Serving Agricultural Colleges and Universities 
Endowment Fund under section 1456(b) (7 U.S.C. 3243(b)) of the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended.

              native american institutions endowment fund

    For the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund authorized by 
Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          extension activities

    For payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, 
Guam, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas, and 
American Samoa, $488,891,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in 
the amounts, specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food 
and Agriculture, Extension Activities'' in the report accompanying this 
Act:  Provided, That funds for facility improvements at 1890 
institutions shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 for 
cooperative extension receive no less than $1,000,000:  Provided 
further, That funds for cooperative extension under sections 3(b) and 
(c) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c)) and section 208(c) 
of Public Law 93-471 shall be available for retirement and employees' 
compensation costs for extension agents.

                         integrated activities

    For the integrated research, education, and extension grants 
programs, including necessary administrative expenses, $13,700,000, 
which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the 
table titled ``National Institute of Food and Agriculture, Integrated 
Activities'' in the report accompanying this Act:  Provided, That funds 
for the Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative shall remain available 
until September 30, 2017.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Marketing and Regulatory Programs, $898,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service, including up to $30,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085), 
$876,465,000, of which $470,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and birds 
(``contingency fund'') to the extent necessary to meet emergency 
conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be used for the cotton pests program for cost share purposes or 
for debt retirement for active eradication zones; of which $35,339,000, 
to remain available until expended, shall be for Animal Health 
Technical Services; of which $697,000 shall be for activities under the 
authority of the Horse Protection Act of 1970, as amended (15 U.S.C. 
1831); of which $52,340,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
be used to support avian health; of which $4,251,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for information technology 
infrastructure; of which $156,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for specialty crop pests; of which, $8,826,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for field crop and rangeland 
ecosystem pests; of which $54,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for tree and wood pests; of which $3,973,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for the National Veterinary 
Stockpile; of which up to $1,500,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for the scrapie program for indemnities; of which 
$1,500,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for the 
wildlife damage management program for aviation safety:  Provided, That 
of amounts available under this heading for wildlife services methods 
development, $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That of amounts available under this heading for the 
screwworm program, $4,990,000 shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That no funds shall be used to formulate or 
administer a brucellosis eradication program for the current fiscal 
year that does not require minimum matching by the States of at least 
40 percent:  Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the 
purchase of not to exceed four, of which two shall be for replacement 
only:  Provided further, That in addition, in emergencies which 
threaten any segment of the agricultural production industry of this 
country, the Secretary may transfer from other appropriations or funds 
available to the agencies or corporations of the Department such sums 
as may be deemed necessary, to be available only in such emergencies 
for the arrest and eradication of contagious or infectious disease or 
pests of animals, poultry, or plants, and for expenses in accordance 
with sections 10411 and 10417 of the Animal Health Protection Act (7 
U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and sections 431 and 442 of the Plant Protection 
Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and any unexpended balances of funds 
transferred for such emergency purposes in the preceding fiscal year 
shall be merged with such transferred amounts:  Provided further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 
2250) for the repair and alteration of leased buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided the cost of altering any 
one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building.
    In fiscal year 2016, the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic 
and international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, 
or services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall 
be reimbursed to this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $3,175,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Marketing Service, 
$81,192,000:  Provided, That this appropriation shall be available 
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair of 
buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any one building 
during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the current 
replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, 
as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $60,982,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses:  Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c), shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers otherwise provided in 
this Act; and (3) not more than $20,489,000 for formulation and 
administration of marketing agreements and orders pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the Agricultural Act 
of 1961.

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,235,000.

        Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Grain Inspection, Packers and 
Stockyards Administration, $43,048,000:  Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

        limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

    Not to exceed $55,000,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services:  
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional 
supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

             Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food Safety, $816,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, including not to exceed $50,000 for 
representation allowances and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the 
Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,013,621,000; and in 
addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this account from fees 
collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as authorized by 
section 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f):  Provided, That funds provided for the Public 
Health Data Communication Infrastructure system shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That no fewer than 148 full-time 
equivalent positions shall be employed during fiscal year 2016 for 
purposes dedicated solely to inspections and enforcement related to the 
Humane Methods of Slaughter Act:  Provided further, That the Food 
Safety and Inspection Service shall continue implementation of section 
11016 of Public Law 110-246 as further clarified by the amendments made 
in section 12106 of Public Law 113-79:  Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

    Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural 
                                Services

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, $898,000.

                          Farm Service Agency

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Farm Service Agency, $1,180,391,000:  
Provided, That not more than 50 percent of the $112,575,000 made 
available under this heading for information technology related to farm 
program delivery, including the Modernize and Innovate the Delivery of 
Agricultural Systems (MIDAS) and other farm program delivery systems, 
may be obligated until the Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations a plan for expenditure that (1) identifies for each 
project/investment over $25,000 (a) the functional and performance 
capabilities to be delivered and the mission benefits to be realized, 
(b) the estimated lifecycle cost, including estimates for development 
as well as maintenance and operations, and (c) key milestones to be 
met; (2) demonstrates that each project/investment is, (a) consistent 
with the Farm Service Agency Information Technology Roadmap, (b) being 
managed in accordance with applicable lifecycle management policies and 
guidance, and (c) subject to the applicable Department's capital 
planning and investment control requirements; and (3) has been 
submitted to the Government Accountability Office:  Provided further, 
That the agency shall submit a report by the end of the fourth quarter 
of fiscal year 2016 to the Committees on Appropriations and the 
Government Accountability Office, that identifies for each project/
investment that is operational (a) current performance against key 
indicators of customer satisfaction, (b) current performance of service 
level agreements or other technical metrics, (c) current performance 
against a pre-established cost baseline, (d) a detailed breakdown of 
current and planned spending on operational enhancements or upgrades, 
and (e) an assessment of whether the investment continues to meet 
business needs as intended as well as alternatives to the investment:  
Provided further, That the Secretary is authorized to use the services, 
facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation to make program payments for all programs administered by 
the Agency:  Provided further, That other funds made available to the 
Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to and merged with 
this account:  Provided further, That funds made available to county 
committees shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds available to the Farm Service Agency shall be 
used to close Farm Service Agency county offices:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds available to the Farm Service Agency shall be 
used to permanently relocate county based employees that would result 
in an office with two or fewer employees without prior notification and 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit 
Act of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $3,404,000.

               grassroots source water protection program

    For necessary expenses to carry out wellhead or groundwater 
protection activities under section 1240O of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2), $6,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                        dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products under a dairy 
indemnity program, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such program is carried out by the 
Secretary in the same manner as the dairy indemnity program described 
in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-387, 114 
Stat. 1549A-12).

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7 
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7 U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), 
Indian tribe land acquisition loans (25 U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans 
(7 U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed conservation loans (7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), 
and Indian highly fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be 
available from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as 
follows: $2,000,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership loans and 
$1,500,000,000 for farm ownership direct loans; $1,393,443,000 for 
unsubsidized guaranteed operating loans and $1,252,004,000 for direct 
operating loans; emergency loans, $34,667,000; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans, $2,000,000; guaranteed conservation loans, 
$150,000,000; Indian highly fractionated land loans, $10,000,000; and 
for boll weevil eradication program loans, $60,000,000:  Provided, That 
the Secretary shall deem the pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the 
purpose of boll weevil eradication program loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans and grants, including 
the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: farm operating loans, 
$53,961,000 for direct operating loans, $14,352,000 for unsubsidized 
guaranteed operating loans, and emergency loans, $1,262,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $314,918,000, of which 
$306,998,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.
    Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
Program Account for farm ownership, operating and conservation direct 
loans and guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs:  
Provided, That the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.

                         Risk Management Agency

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Risk Management Agency, $74,829,000:  
Provided, That not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
1506(i).

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1516), such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended.

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                 reimbursement for net realized losses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary to 
reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses 
sustained, but not previously reimbursed, pursuant to section 2 of the 
Act of August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11):  Provided, That of the 
funds available to the Commodity Credit Corporation under section 11 of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for the 
conduct of its business with the Foreign Agricultural Service, up to 
$5,000,000 may be transferred to and used by the Foreign Agricultural 
Service for information resource management activities of the Foreign 
Agricultural Service that are not related to Commodity Credit 
Corporation business.

                       hazardous waste management

                        (limitation on expenses)

    For the current fiscal year, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall 
not expend more than $5,000,000 for site investigation and cleanup 
expenses, and operations and maintenance expenses to comply with the 
requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and 
section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 
6961).

                                TITLE II

                         CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

  Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Natural Resources and Environment, $898,000.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                        conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act 
of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$855,209,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for construction and improvement of buildings and public 
improvements at plant materials centers, except that the cost of 
alterations and improvements to other buildings and other public 
improvements shall not exceed $250,000:  Provided further, That when 
buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal land, that the 
right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a:  
Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading, $5,600,000, shall remain available until expended for the 
authorities under 16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 and 1007-1009 for authorized 
ongoing watershed projects with a primary purpose of providing water to 
rural communities:  Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading, $5,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the authorities under section 13 of the Flood Control Act 
of December 22, 1944 (Public Law 78-534) for authorized ongoing 
projects with a primary purpose of watershed protection by stabilizing 
stream channels, tributaries, and banks to reduce erosion and sediment 
transport.

                               TITLE III

                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

          Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Rural Development, $898,000.

                Rural Development Salaries and Expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs in the Rural Development mission area, 
including activities with institutions concerning the development and 
operation of agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; 
$228,701,000:  Provided, That no less than $19,500,000 shall be for the 
Comprehensive Loan Accounting System:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated under 
this heading may be used for advertising and promotional activities 
that support the Rural Development mission area:  Provided further, 
That any balances available from prior years for the Rural Utilities 
Service, Rural Housing Service, and the Rural Business-Cooperative 
Service salaries and expenses accounts shall be transferred to and 
merged with this appropriation.

                         Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, 
to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as 
follows: $900,000,000 shall be for direct loans and $24,000,000,000 
shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $26,278,000 for section 504 
housing repair loans; $28,398,000 for section 515 rental housing; 
$200,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed multi-family housing loans; 
$10,000,000 for credit sales of single family housing acquired 
property; $5,000,000 for section 523 self-help housing land development 
loans; and $5,000,000 for section 524 site development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $60,750,000 shall be for 
direct loans; section 504 housing repair loans, $3,424,000; and repair, 
rehabilitation, and new construction of section 515 rental housing, 
$8,414,000:  Provided, That to support the loan program level for 
section 538 guaranteed loans made available under this heading the 
Secretary may charge or adjust any fees to cover the projected cost of 
such loan guarantees pursuant to the provisions of the Credit Reform 
Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.), and the interest on such loans may 
not be subsidized:  Provided further, That applicants in communities 
that have a current rural area waiver under section 541 of the Housing 
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q) shall be treated as living in a rural 
area for purposes of section 502 guaranteed loans provided under this 
heading:  Provided further, That of the amounts available under this 
paragraph for section 502 direct loans, no less than $5,000,000 shall 
be available for direct loans for individuals whose homes will be built 
pursuant to a program funded with a mutual and self-help housing grant 
authorized by section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949 until June 1, 
2016.
    In addition, for the cost of direct loans, grants, and contracts, 
as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1484 and 1486, $15,053,000, to remain 
available until expended, for direct farm labor housing loans and 
domestic farm labor housing grants and contracts:  Provided, That any 
balances available for the Farm Labor Program Account shall be 
transferred to and merged with this account.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $415,100,000 shall be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries 
and Expenses''.

                       rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant 
to the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in 
lieu of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, 
$1,167,000,000; and, in addition, such sums as may be necessary, as 
authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred 
prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the rental assistance program 
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act:  Provided, That rental assistance 
agreements entered into or renewed during the current fiscal year shall 
be funded for a 1-year period:  Provided further, That rental 
assistance contracts will not be renewed within the 12-month contract 
period:  Provided further, That any unexpended balances remaining at 
the end of such 1-year agreements may be transferred and used for the 
purposes of any debt reduction; maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation 
of any existing projects; preservation; and rental assistance 
activities authorized under title V of the Act:  Provided further, That 
rental assistance provided under agreements entered into prior to 
fiscal year 2016 for a farm labor multi-family housing project financed 
under section 514 or 516 of the Act may not be recaptured for use in 
another project until such assistance has remained unused for a period 
of 12 consecutive months, if such project has a waiting list of tenants 
seeking such assistance or the project has rental assistance eligible 
tenants who are not receiving such assistance:  Provided further, That 
such recaptured rental assistance shall, to the extent practicable, be 
applied to another farm labor multi-family housing project financed 
under section 514 or 516 of the Act.

          multi-family housing revitalization program account

    For the rural housing voucher program as authorized under section 
542 of the Housing Act of 1949, but notwithstanding subsection (b) of 
such section, and for additional costs to conduct a demonstration 
program for the preservation and revitalization of multi-family rental 
housing properties described in this paragraph, $24,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, $7,000,000, shall be available for rural housing 
vouchers to any low-income household (including those not receiving 
rental assistance) residing in a property financed with a section 515 
loan which has been prepaid after September 30, 2005:  Provided 
further, That the amount of such voucher shall be the difference 
between comparable market rent for the section 515 unit and the tenant 
paid rent for such unit:  Provided further, That funds made available 
for such vouchers shall be subject to the availability of annual 
appropriations:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, administer such vouchers with current 
regulations and administrative guidance applicable to section 8 housing 
vouchers administered by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development:  Provided further, That if the Secretary determines 
that the amount made available for vouchers in this or any other Act is 
not needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use such funds for the 
demonstration program for the preservation and revitalization of multi-
family rental housing properties described in this paragraph:  Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$17,000,000 shall be available for a demonstration program for the 
preservation and revitalization of the sections 514, 515, and 516 
multi-family rental housing properties to restructure existing USDA 
multi-family housing loans, as the Secretary deems appropriate, 
expressly for the purposes of ensuring the project has sufficient 
resources to preserve the project for the purpose of providing safe and 
affordable housing for low-income residents and farm laborers including 
reducing or eliminating interest; deferring loan payments, 
subordinating, reducing or reamortizing loan debt; and other financial 
assistance including advances, payments and incentives (including the 
ability of owners to obtain reasonable returns on investment) required 
by the Secretary:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall as part 
of the preservation and revitalization agreement obtain a restrictive 
use agreement consistent with the terms of the restructuring:  Provided 
further, That if the Secretary determines that additional funds for 
vouchers described in this paragraph are needed, funds for the 
preservation and revitalization demonstration program may be used for 
such vouchers:  Provided further, That if Congress enacts legislation 
to permanently authorize a multi-family rental housing loan 
restructuring program similar to the demonstration program described 
herein, the Secretary may use funds made available for the 
demonstration program under this heading to carry out such legislation 
with the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That in addition to any other 
available funds, the Secretary may expend not more than $1,000,000 
total, from the program funds made available under this heading, for 
administrative expenses for activities funded under this heading.

                  mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $27,500,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                    rural housing assistance grants

    For grants for very low-income housing repair and rural housing 
preservation made by the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $32,239,000, to remain available until 
expended.

               rural community facilities program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by section 306 and described in section 
381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
$2,200,000,000 for direct loans and $84,746,000 for guaranteed loans.
    For the cost of guaranteed loans, including the cost of modifying 
loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, $2,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    For the cost of grants for rural community facilities programs as 
authorized by section 306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $26,778,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That $4,000,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for a Rural 
Community Development Initiative:  Provided further, That such funds 
shall be used solely to develop the capacity and ability of private, 
nonprofit community-based housing and community development 
organizations, low-income rural communities, and Federally Recognized 
Native American Tribes to undertake projects to improve housing, 
community facilities, community and economic development projects in 
rural areas:  Provided further, That such funds shall be made available 
to qualified private, nonprofit and public intermediary organizations 
proposing to carry out a program of financial and technical assistance: 
 Provided further, That such intermediary organizations shall provide 
matching funds from other sources, including Federal funds for related 
activities, in an amount not less than funds provided:  Provided 
further, That $5,778,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
shall be to provide grants for facilities in rural communities with 
extreme unemployment and severe economic depression (Public Law 106-
387), with up to 5 percent for administration and capacity building in 
the State rural development offices:  Provided further, That $4,000,000 
of the amount appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
community facilities grants to tribal colleges, as authorized by 
section 306(a)(19) of such Act:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H 
and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not 
applicable to the funds made available under this heading.

                  Rural Business--Cooperative Service

                     rural business program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of loan guarantees and grants, for the rural business 
development programs authorized by section 310B and described in 
subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 310B of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act, $62,687,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading, not to exceed $500,000 shall be made available for one grant 
to a qualified national organization to provide technical assistance 
for rural transportation in order to promote economic development and 
$3,000,000 shall be for grants to the Delta Regional Authority (7 
U.S.C. 2009aa et seq.) for any Rural Community Advancement Program 
purpose as described in section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act, of which not more than 5 percent may be used for 
administrative expenses:  Provided further, That $4,000,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for business grants to 
benefit Federally Recognized Native American Tribes, including $250,000 
for a grant to a qualified national organization to provide technical 
assistance for rural transportation in order to promote economic 
development:  Provided further, That for purposes of determining 
eligibility or level of program assistance the Secretary shall not 
include incarcerated prison populations:  Provided further, That 
sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act are not applicable to funds made available under this heading.

              intermediary relending program fund account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), 
$18,889,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, $5,217,000, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), of which 
$531,000 shall be available through June 30, 2016, for Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes; and of which $1,021,000 shall be 
available through June 30, 2016, for Mississippi Delta Region counties 
(as determined in accordance with Public Law 100-460):  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $4,439,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development, energy efficiency, and job 
creation projects, $48,013,000.
    Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of credit 
payments, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, $182,000,000 shall not be obligated and $182,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $22,050,000, of which $2,500,000 shall be for cooperative 
agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for rural areas 
program:  Provided, That not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be for grants 
for cooperative development centers, individual cooperatives, or groups 
of cooperatives that serve socially disadvantaged groups and a majority 
of the boards of directors or governing boards of which are comprised 
of individuals who are members of socially disadvantaged groups; and of 
which $10,750,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
value-added agricultural product market development grants, as 
authorized by section 231 of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 
2000 (7 U.S.C. 1632a).

                    rural energy for america program

    For the cost of a program of loan guarantees, under the same terms 
and conditions as authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107), $500,000:  Provided, That 
the cost of loan guarantees, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974.

                        Rural Utilities Service

             rural water and waste disposal program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants for the 
rural water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid waste management 
programs authorized by sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B 
and described in sections 306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $496,738,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the rural utilities program described in section 
306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to exceed $993,000 shall be 
available for the rural utilities program described in section 306E of 
such Act:  Provided, That $66,500,000 of the amount appropriated under 
this heading shall be for loans and grants including water and waste 
disposal systems grants authorized by 306C(a)(2)(B) and 306D of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, Federally Recognized 
Native American Tribes authorized by 306C(a)(1), and the Department of 
Hawaiian Home Lands (of the State of Hawaii):  Provided further, That 
funding provided for section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act may be provided to a consortium formed pursuant to 
section 325 of Public Law 105-83:  Provided further, That not more than 
2 percent of the funding provided for section 306D of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act may be used by the State of Alaska for 
training and technical assistance programs and not more than 2 percent 
of the funding provided for section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act may be used by a consortium formed pursuant to 
section 325 of Public Law 105-83 for training and technical assistance 
programs:  Provided further, That not to exceed $19,000,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for technical 
assistance grants for rural water and waste systems pursuant to section 
306(a)(14) of such Act, unless the Secretary makes a determination of 
extreme need, of which $6,000,000 shall be made available for a grant 
to a qualified nonprofit multi-State regional technical assistance 
organization, with experience in working with small communities on 
water and waste water problems, the principal purpose of such grant 
shall be to assist rural communities with populations of 3,300 or less, 
in improving the planning, financing, development, operation, and 
management of water and waste water systems, and of which not less than 
$800,000 shall be for a qualified national Native American organization 
to provide technical assistance for rural water systems for tribal 
communities:  Provided further, That not to exceed $16,500,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for contracting with 
qualified national organizations for a circuit rider program to provide 
technical assistance for rural water systems:  Provided further, That 
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid waste management grants:  
Provided further, That $10,000,000 of the amount appropriated under 
this heading shall be transferred to, and merged with, the Rural 
Utilities Service, High Energy Cost Grants Account to provide grants 
authorized under section 19 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 918a):  Provided further, That any prior year balances for high-
energy cost grants authorized by section 19 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a) shall be transferred to and 
merged with the Rural Utilities Service, High Energy Cost Grants 
Account:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not applicable to the 
funds made available under this heading.

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    The principal amount of direct and guaranteed loans as authorized 
by sections 305 and 306 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 935 and 936) shall be made as follows: loans made pursuant to 
section 306 of that Act, rural electric, $6,000,000,000; guaranteed 
underwriting loans pursuant to section 313A, $750,000,000; 5 percent 
rural telecommunications loans, cost of money rural telecommunications 
loans, and for loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, rural 
telecommunications loans, $690,000,000:  Provided, That up to 
$2,000,000,000 shall be used for the construction, acquisition, or 
improvement of fossil-fueled electric generating plants (whether new or 
existing) that utilize carbon sequestration systems.
    For the cost of direct loans as authorized by section 305 of the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, cost of money rural telecommunications loans, $104,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $34,478,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural 
Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

         distance learning, telemedicine, and broadband program

    For the principal amount of broadband telecommunication loans, 
$20,576,000.
    For grants for telemedicine and distance learning services in rural 
areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $22,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That $3,000,000 shall be made 
available for grants authorized by 379G of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act:  Provided further, That funding provided under 
this heading for grants under 379G of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act may only be provided to entities that meet all of the 
eligibility criteria for a consortium as established by this section.
    For the cost of broadband loans, as authorized by section 601 of 
the Rural Electrification Act, $4,500,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That the cost of direct loans shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, $10,372,000, to remain available until expended, for a 
grant program to finance broadband transmission in rural areas eligible 
for Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program benefits authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 950aaa.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

    Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer 
                                Services

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, $816,000.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Richard B. Russell National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 
17 and 21; $21,524,377,000 to remain available through September 30, 
2017, of which such sums as are made available under section 
14222(b)(1) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-246), as amended by this Act, shall be merged with and 
available for the same time period and purposes as provided herein:  
Provided, That of the total amount available, $17,004,000 shall be 
available to carry out section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.):  Provided further, That of the total amount 
available, $25,000,000 shall be available to provide competitive grants 
to State agencies for subgrants to local educational agencies and 
schools to purchase the equipment needed to serve healthier meals, 
improve food safety, and to help support the establishment, 
maintenance, or expansion of the school breakfast program:  Provided 
further, That of the total amount available, $16,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended to carry out section 749(g) of the Agriculture 
Appropriations Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-80).

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                 (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $6,513,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2017:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 
17(h)(10) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), 
not less than $60,000,000 shall be used for breastfeeding peer 
counselors and other related activities, $13,600,000 shall be used for 
infrastructure, $55,000,000 shall be used for management information 
systems:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this 
account shall be available for the purchase of infant formula except in 
accordance with the cost containment and competitive bidding 
requirements specified in section 17 of such Act:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds provided shall be available for activities that 
are not fully reimbursed by other Federal Government departments or 
agencies unless authorized by section 17 of such Act:  Provided 
further, That upon termination of a federally mandated vendor 
moratorium and subject to terms and conditions established by the 
Secretary, the Secretary may waive the requirement at 7 CFR 
246.12(g)(6) at the request of a State agency.

               supplemental nutrition assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food and Nutrition Act of 
2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), $81,662,069,000, of which $3,000,000,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 2017, shall be placed in 
reserve for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations:  Provided, That funds 
provided herein shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the 
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008:  Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $998,000 may be used to provide 
nutrition education services to State agencies and Federally Recognized 
Tribes participating in the Food Distribution Program on Indian 
Reservations:  Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
subject to any work registration or workfare requirements as may be 
required by law:  Provided further, That funds made available for 
Employment and Training under this heading shall remain available 
through September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading for a study on Indian tribal 
administration of nutrition programs, as provided in title IV of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79), and a study of the 
removal of cash benefits in Puerto Rico, as provided in title IV of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79) shall be available until 
expended:  Provided further, That funds made available under this 
heading for section 28(d)(1) and section 27(a) of the Food and 
Nutrition Act of 2008 shall remain available through September 30, 
2017:  Provided further, That funds made available under this heading 
for employment and training pilot projects, as provided in title IV of 
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79), shall remain 
available through September 30, 2018:  Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading may be used to enter into contracts 
and employ staff to conduct studies, evaluations, or to conduct 
activities related to program integrity provided that such activities 
are authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out disaster assistance and the 
Commodity Supplemental Food Program as authorized by section 4(a) of 
the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c 
note); the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983; special assistance 
for the nuclear affected islands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of 
the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-
188); and the Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by 
section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, $288,317,000, to 
remain available through September 30, 2017:  Provided, That none of 
these funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for commodities donated to the program:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective with funds 
made available in fiscal year 2016 to support the Seniors Farmers' 
Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by section 4402 of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, such funds shall remain 
available through September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act 
of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use up to 10 percent for 
costs associated with the distribution of commodities.

                   nutrition programs administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Food and Nutrition 
Service for carrying out any domestic nutrition assistance program, 
$151,824,000:  Provided, That of the funds provided herein, $2,000,000 
shall be used for the purposes of section 4404 of Public Law 107-171, 
as amended by section 4401 of Public Law 110-246.

                                TITLE V

                FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

                      Foreign Agricultural Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including not to exceed $250,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 
U.S.C. 1766), $187,225,000, of which no more than 6 percent shall 
remain available until September 30, 2017, for overseas operations to 
include the payment of locally employed staff:  Provided, That the 
Service may utilize advances of funds, or reimburse this appropriation 
for expenditures made on behalf of Federal agencies, public and private 
organizations and institutions under agreements executed pursuant to 
the agricultural food production assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) 
and the foreign assistance programs of the United States Agency for 
International Development:  Provided further, That funds made available 
for middle-income country training programs, funds made available for 
the Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology 
Fellowship program, and up to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural 
Service appropriation solely for the purpose of offsetting fluctuations 
in international currency exchange rates, subject to documentation by 
the Foreign Agricultural Service, shall remain available until 
expended.

  food for peace title i direct credit and food for progress program 
                                account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the credit program of 
title I, Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480) and the Food for 
Progress Act of 1985, $2,528,000, shall be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and 
Expenses''.

                     food for peace title ii grants

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad under title 
II of said Act, $1,466,000,000, to remain available until expended.

  mcgovern-dole international food for education and child nutrition 
                             program grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 3107 
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-
1), $201,626,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized to provide the services, 
facilities, and authorities for the purpose of implementing such 
section, subject to reimbursement from amounts provided herein:  
Provided further, That of the amount made available under this heading, 
$10,000,000, shall remain available until expended for necessary 
expenses to carry out the provisions of section 3207 of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 1726c).

 commodity credit corporation export (loans) credit guarantee program 
                                account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's Export Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, 
$6,748,000; to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 
11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity 
with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which $6,394,000 shall 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign 
Agricultural Service, Salaries and Expenses'', and of which $354,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm 
Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                                TITLE VI

            RELATED AGENCY AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                Department of Health and Human Services

                      food and drug administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; for miscellaneous and emergency 
expenses of enforcement activities, authorized and approved by the 
Secretary and to be accounted for solely on the Secretary's 
certificate, not to exceed $25,000; and notwithstanding section 521 of 
Public Law 107-188; $4,559,663,000:  Provided, That of the amount 
provided under this heading, $826,072,000 shall be derived from 
prescription drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$134,475,000 shall be derived from medical device user fees authorized 
by 21 U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended; $320,029,000 shall be derived from human 
generic drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-42, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$21,540,000 shall be derived from biosimilar biological product user 
fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-52, and shall be credited to this 
account and remain available until expended; $22,140,000 shall be 
derived from animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-12, and 
shall be credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$7,429,000 shall be derived from animal generic drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-21, and shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended; $599,000,000 shall be derived from 
tobacco product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 387s, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That in addition to and notwithstanding any other provision 
under this heading, amounts collected for prescription drug user fees, 
medical device user fees, human generic drug user fees, biosimilar 
biological product user fees, animal drug user fees, and animal generic 
drug user fees that exceed the respective fiscal year 2016 limitations 
are appropriated and shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That fees derived from 
prescription drug, medical device, human generic drug, biosimilar 
biological product, animal drug, and animal generic drug assessments 
for fiscal year 2016, including any such fees collected prior to fiscal 
year 2016 but credited for fiscal year 2016, shall be subject to the 
fiscal year 2016 limitations:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
accept payment during fiscal year 2016 of user fees specified under 
this heading and authorized for fiscal year 2017, prior to the due date 
for such fees, and that amounts of such fees assessed for fiscal year 
2017 for which the Secretary accepts payment in fiscal year 2016 shall 
not be included in amounts under this heading:  Provided further, That 
none of these funds shall be used to develop, establish, or operate any 
program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701:  Provided further, 
That of the total amount appropriated: (1) $948,403,000 shall be for 
the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition and related field 
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (2) $1,366,975,000 
shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and related 
field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (3) $345,190,000 
shall be for the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and for 
related field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (4) 
$171,115,000 shall be for the Center for Veterinary Medicine and for 
related field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (5) 
$424,635,000 shall be for the Center for Devices and Radiological 
Health and for related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs; (6) $63,331,000 shall be for the National Center for 
Toxicological Research; (7) $564,117,000 shall be for the Center for 
Tobacco Products and for related field activities in the Office of 
Regulatory Affairs; (8) not to exceed $166,762,000 shall be for Rent 
and Related activities, of which $50,218,000 is for White Oak 
Consolidation, other than the amounts paid to the General Services 
Administration for rent; (9) not to exceed $229,432,000 shall be for 
payments to the General Services Administration for rent; (10) not less 
than $150,000 shall be used to implement a requirement that the 
labeling of genetically engineered salmon offered for sale to consumers 
indicate that such salmon is genetically engineered; and (11) 
$279,703,000 shall be for other activities, including the Office of the 
Commissioner of Food and Drugs, the Office of Foods and Veterinary 
Medicine, the Office of Medical and Tobacco Products, the Office of 
Global and Regulatory Policy, the Office of Operations, the Office of 
the Chief Scientist, and central services for these offices:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $25,000 of this amount shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, as determined by the Commissioner:  Provided further, That any 
transfer of funds pursuant to section 770(n) of the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379dd(n)) shall only be from amounts made 
available under this heading for other activities:  Provided further, 
That of the amounts that are made available under this heading for 
``other activities'', and that are not derived from user fees, 
$1,500,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``Department of Health and Human Services--Office of Inspector 
General'' for oversight of the programs and operations of the Food and 
Drug Administration and shall be in addition to funds otherwise made 
available for oversight of the Food and Drug Administration:  Provided 
further, That funds may be transferred from one specified activity to 
another with the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress.
    In addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 U.S.C. 263b, 
export certification user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381, priority 
review user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360n and 360ff, food and feed 
recall fees, food reinspection fees, and voluntary qualified importer 
program fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-31, outsourcing facility fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-62, prescription drug wholesale 
distributor licensing and inspection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
353(e)(3), and third-party logistics provider licensing and inspection 
fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360eee-3(c)(1), and third-party auditor 
fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), shall be credited to this 
account, to remain available until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by 
the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, 
$8,788,000, to remain available until expended.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                       Farm Credit Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $65,600,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249:  Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships:  Provided further, That the agency may exceed this 
limitation by up to 10 percent with notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including rescissions and transfers of funds)

    Sec. 701.  Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
Agriculture for the current fiscal year under this Act shall be 
available for the purchase, in addition to those specifically provided 
for, of not to exceed 71 passenger motor vehicles of which 68 shall be 
for replacement only, and for the hire of such vehicles:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding this section, the only purchase of new passenger 
vehicles shall be for those determined by the Secretary to be necessary 
for transportation safety, to reduce operational costs, and for the 
protection of life, property, and public safety.
    Sec. 702.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may transfer unobligated balances of 
discretionary funds appropriated by this Act or any other available 
unobligated discretionary balances that are remaining available of the 
Department of Agriculture to the Working Capital Fund for the 
acquisition of plant and capital equipment necessary for the delivery 
of financial, administrative, and information technology services of 
primary benefit to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture, such 
transferred funds to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
none of the funds made available by this Act or any other Act shall be 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the prior approval of 
the agency administrator:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to this section shall 
be available for obligation without written notification to and the 
prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by 
this Act or made available to the Department's Working Capital Fund 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure to make any changes to 
the Department's National Finance Center without written notification 
to and prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress as required by section 717 of this Act:  Provided 
further, That of annual income amounts in the Working Capital Fund of 
the Department of Agriculture allocated for the National Finance 
Center, the Secretary may reserve not more than 4 percent for the 
replacement or acquisition of capital equipment, including equipment 
for the improvement and implementation of a financial management plan, 
information technology, and other systems of the National Finance 
Center or to pay any unforeseen, extraordinary cost of the National 
Finance Center:  Provided further, That none of the amounts reserved 
shall be available for obligation unless the Secretary submits written 
notification of the obligation to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate:  Provided further, That 
the limitation on the obligation of funds pending notification to 
Congressional Committees shall not apply to any obligation that, as 
determined by the Secretary, is necessary to respond to a declared 
state of emergency that significantly impacts the operations of the 
National Finance Center; or to evacuate employees of the National 
Finance Center to a safe haven to continue operations of the National 
Finance Center.
    Sec. 703.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 704.  No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is 
to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 705.  Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in the current 
fiscal year shall remain available until expended to disburse 
obligations made in the current fiscal year for the following accounts: 
the Rural Development Loan Fund program account, the Rural 
Electrification and Telecommunication Loans program account, and the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund program account.
    Sec. 706.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board:  Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act may be transferred to the Office of the 
Chief Information Officer without written notification to and the prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That none of the funds available to the 
Department of Agriculture for information technology shall be obligated 
for projects over $25,000 prior to receipt of written approval by the 
Chief Information Officer:  Provided further, That the Chief 
Information Officer may authorize an agency to obligate funds without 
written approval from the Chief Information Officer for projects up to 
$250,000 based upon the performance of an agency measured against the 
performance plan requirements described in the report accompanying this 
Act.
    Sec. 707.  Funds made available under section 524(b) of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current fiscal year shall 
remain available until expended to disburse obligations made in the 
current fiscal year.
    Sec. 708.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any former 
RUS borrower that has repaid or prepaid an insured, direct or 
guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, or any 
not-for-profit utility that is eligible to receive an insured or direct 
loan under such Act, shall be eligible for assistance under section 
313(b)(2)(B) of such Act in the same manner as a borrower under such 
Act.
    Sec. 709.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not 
more than $20,000,000 in unobligated balances from appropriations made 
available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Farm Service 
Agency shall remain available through September 30, 2017, for 
information technology expenses:  Provided, That except as otherwise 
specifically provided by law, unobligated balances from appropriations 
made available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Rural 
Development mission area shall remain available through September 30, 
2017, for information technology expenses.
    Sec. 710.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by the 
employees of agencies funded by this Act in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 711.  In the case of each program established or amended by 
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79), other than by title I 
or subtitle A of title III of such Act, or programs for which 
indefinite amounts were provided in that Act, that is authorized or 
required to be carried out using funds of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation--
            (1) such funds shall be available for salaries and related 
        administrative expenses, including technical assistance, 
        associated with the implementation of the program, without 
        regard to the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in section 11 of the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
            (2) the use of such funds for such purpose shall not be 
        considered to be a fund transfer or allotment for purposes of 
        applying the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in such section.
    Sec. 712.  Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$2,000,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task 
forces of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to 
comply with negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate 
competitively awarded grants.
    Sec. 713.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs charged against any agricultural research, education, or 
extension grant awards issued by the National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture that exceed 30 percent of total Federal funds provided 
under each award:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 1462 of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds provided by this Act for grants awarded 
competitively by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture shall 
be available to pay full allowable indirect costs for each grant 
awarded under section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
    Sec. 714.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out the following:
            (1) The Watershed Rehabilitation program authorized by 
        section 14(h)(1) of the Watershed and Flood Protection Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1012(h)(1)); and
            (2) The Environmental Quality Incentives Program as 
        authorized by sections 1240-1240H of the Food Security Act of 
        1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-3839aa-8) in excess of $1,347,000,000:  
        Provided, That this limitation shall apply only to funds 
        provided by section 1241(a)(5)(C) of the Food Security Act of 
        1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)(5)(C)):  Provided further, That of the 
        funds available under section 1241(a)(5)(B) of the Food 
        Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)(5)(B)) for fiscal year 
        2016, $73,000,000 are permanently rescinded; and
            (3) The Biomass Crop Assistance Program authorized by 
        section 9011 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
        2002 (7 U.S.C. 8111) in excess of $3,000,000 in new 
        obligational authority.
    Sec. 715.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out a program under subsection 
(b)(2)(A)(viii) of section 14222 of Public Law 110-246 in excess of 
$884,980,000, as follows: Child Nutrition Programs Entitlement 
Commodities--$465,000,000; State Option Contracts--$5,000,000; Removal 
of Defective Commodities--$2,500,000:  Provided, That none of the funds 
made available in this Act or any other Act shall be used for salaries 
and expenses to carry out in this fiscal year section 19(i)(1)(E) of 
the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended, except in 
an amount that excludes the transfer of $125,000,000 of the funds to be 
transferred under subsection (c) of section 14222 of Public Law 110-
246, until October 1, 2016:  Provided further, That $125,000,000 made 
available on October 1, 2016, to carry out section 19(i)(1)(E) of the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended, shall be 
excluded from the limitation described in subsection (b)(2)(A)(ix) of 
section 14222 of Public Law 110-246:  Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other 
Act shall be used to pay the salaries or expenses of any employee of 
the Department of Agriculture or officer of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation to carry out clause 3 of section 32 of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1935 (Public Law 74-320, 7 U.S.C. 612c, as amended), 
or for any surplus removal activities or price support activities under 
section 5 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act:  Provided 
further, That the available unobligated balances under (b)(2)(A)(viii) 
of section 14222 of Public Law 110-246 in excess of the limitation set 
forth in this section, except for the amounts to be transferred 
pursuant to the first proviso, are hereby permanently rescinded.
    Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who prepare 
or submit appropriations language as part of the President's budget 
submission to the Congress for programs under the jurisdiction of the 
Appropriations Subcommittees on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies that assumes revenues or 
reflects a reduction from the previous year due to user fees proposals 
that have not been enacted into law prior to the submission of the 
budget unless such budget submission identifies which additional 
spending reductions should occur in the event the user fees proposals 
are not enacted prior to the date of the convening of a committee of 
conference for the fiscal year 2017 appropriations Act.
    Sec. 717. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided 
by previous Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal 
year, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall 
be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming, 
transfer of funds, or reimbursements as authorized by the Economy Act, 
or in the case of the Department of Agriculture, through use of the 
authority provided by section 702(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public Law 89-106 
(7 U.S.C. 2263), that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or
            (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services (as the case may be) notifies in writing and receives 
approval from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress at least 30 days in advance of the reprogramming of such funds 
or the use of such authority.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects 
through a reprogramming or use of the authorities referred to in 
subsection (a) involving funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
        activities, or projects as approved by Congress;
unless the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services (as the case may be) notifies in writing and receives 
approval from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress at least 30 days in advance of the reprogramming or transfer 
of such funds or the use of such authority.
    (c) The Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services shall notify in writing and receive approval from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress before 
implementing any program or activity not carried out during the 
previous fiscal year unless the program or activity is funded by this 
Act or specifically funded by any other Act.
    (d) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for--
            (1) modifying major capital investments funding levels, 
        including information technology systems, that involves 
        increasing or decreasing funds in the current fiscal year for 
        the individual investment in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent 
        of the total cost, whichever is less;
            (2) realigning or reorganizing new, current, or vacant 
        positions or agency activities or functions to establish a 
        center, office, branch, or similar entity with five or more 
        personnel; or
            (3) carrying out activities or functions that were not 
        described in the budget request;
unless the agencies funded by this Act notify, in writing, the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 
days in advance of using the funds for these purposes.
    (e) As described in this section, no funds may be used for any 
activities unless the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services receives from the Committee on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress written or electronic mail confirmation of 
receipt of the notification as required in this section.
    Sec. 718.  Notwithstanding section 310B(g)(5) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)(5)), the Secretary may 
assess a one-time fee for any guaranteed business and industry loan in 
an amount that does not exceed 3 percent of the guaranteed principal 
portion of the loan.
    Sec. 719.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug 
Administration, or the Farm Credit Administration shall be used to 
transmit or otherwise make available to any non-Department of 
Agriculture, non-Department of Health and Human Services, or non-Farm 
Credit Administration employee questions or responses to questions that 
are a result of information requested for the appropriations hearing 
process.
    Sec. 720.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, may be used by an executive branch agency 
to produce any prepackaged news story intended for broadcast or 
distribution in the United States unless the story includes a clear 
notification within the text or audio of the prepackaged news story 
that the prepackaged news story was prepared or funded by that 
executive branch agency.
    Sec. 721.  No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act or any 
other Act to any other agency or office of the Department for more than 
60 days in a fiscal year unless the individual's employing agency or 
office is fully reimbursed by the receiving agency or office for the 
salary and expenses of the employee for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 722.  The Secretary of Agriculture may authorize a State 
agency to use funds provided in this Act to exceed the maximum amount 
of liquid infant formula specified in 7 CFR 246.10 when issuing liquid 
infant formula to participants.
    Sec. 723.  Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Commissioner of the Food 
and Drug Administration, and the Chairman of the Farm Credit 
Administration shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate a detailed spending plan by 
program, project, and activity for all the funds made available under 
this Act including appropriated user fees, as defined in the report 
accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 724.  There is hereby appropriated $1,996,000 to carry out 
section 1621 of Public Law 110-246.
    Sec. 725.  The Secretary shall continue the pilot program in effect 
for fiscal year 2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502 single 
family direct loans. The Secretary shall continue agreements with 
current intermediary organizations and not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act enter into additional agreements that increase 
the number of participating intermediary organizations to not less than 
10. The Secretary shall work with these organizations to increase the 
effectiveness of the section 502 single family direct loan program in 
rural communities and shall set aside and make available from the 
national reserve section 502 loans an amount necessary to support the 
work of such intermediaries and provide a priority for review of such 
loans.
    Sec. 726.  For loans and loan guarantees that do not require budget 
authority and the program level has been established in this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may increase the program level for such loans 
and loan guarantees by not more than 25 percent:  Provided, That prior 
to the Secretary implementing such an increase, the Secretary notifies, 
in writing, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
at least 15 days in advance.
    Sec. 727.  None of the credit card refunds or rebates transferred 
to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to section 729 of the Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2002 (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public Law 107-76) shall be 
available for obligation without written notification to, and the prior 
approval of, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided, That the refunds or rebates so transferred shall 
be available for obligation only for the acquisition of plant and 
capital equipment necessary for the delivery of financial, 
administrative, and information technology services of primary benefit 
to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture.
    Sec. 728.  There is hereby appropriated $600,000 for the purposes 
of section 727 of division A of Public Law 112-55.
    Sec. 729.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enforce the final rule entitled ``Food Labeling; Nutrition Labeling 
of Standard Menu Items in Restaurants and Similar Retail Food 
Establishments'' published by the Food and Drug Administration in the 
Federal Register on December 1, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 71156 et seq.) 
before December 1, 2016.
    Sec. 730.  In response to an eligible community where the drinking 
water supplies are inadequate due to a natural disaster, as determined 
by the Secretary, including drought or severe weather, the Secretary 
may provide potable water through the Emergency Community Water 
Assistance Grant Program for an additional period of time not to exceed 
120 days beyond the established period provided under the Program in 
order to protect public health.
    Sec. 731.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available by this 
Act and notwithstanding the last sentence of 16 U.S.C. 1310, there is 
appropriated $4,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
implement non-renewable agreements on eligible lands, including flooded 
agricultural lands, as determined by the Secretary, under the Water 
Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301-1311).
    Sec. 732.  The Secretary shall set aside for Rural Economic Area 
Partnership (REAP) Zones, until August 15, 2016, an amount of funds 
made available in title III under the headings of Rural Housing 
Insurance Fund Program Account, Mutual and Self-Help Housing Grants, 
Rural Housing Assistance Grants, Rural Community Facilities Program 
Account, Rural Business Program Account, Rural Development Loan Fund 
Program Account, and Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program Account, 
equal to the amount obligated in REAP Zones with respect to funds 
provided under such headings in the most recent fiscal year any such 
funds were obligated under such headings for REAP Zones.
    Sec. 733.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used 
to issue, promulgate, or otherwise implement the 2015 Dietary 
Guidelines for Americans edition unless the information and guidelines 
in the report are solely nutritional and dietary in nature; and based 
only on a preponderance of nutritional and dietary scientific evidence 
and not extraneous information.
    Sec. 734.  Funds provided by this or any prior Appropriations Act 
for the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) 
shall be made available without regard to section 7128 of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 3371 note), under the matching 
requirements in laws in effect on the date before the date of enactment 
of such section:  Provided, That the requirements of 7 U.S.C. 
450i(b)(9) shall continue to apply.
    Sec. 735.  The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary's 
designees are hereby granted the same access to information and subject 
to the same requirements applicable to the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development as provided in section 453 (j) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 653 (j)) and section 6103 (l)(7)(D)(ix) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6103(l)(7)(D)(ix)) to verify the income 
for individuals participating in sections 502, 504, 521, and 542 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472, 1474, 1490a, and 1490r).
    Sec. 736.  The Secretary may charge a fee for lenders to access 
Department loan guarantee systems in connection with such lenders' 
participation in loan guarantee programs of the Rural Housing Service:  
Provided, That the funds collected from such fees shall be made 
available to the Secretary without further appropriation and such funds 
shall be deposited into the Rural Development Salaries and Expense 
Account and shall remain available until expended for obligation and 
expenditure by the Secretary for administrative expenses of the Rural 
Housing Service Loan Guarantee Program in addition to other available 
funds:  Provided further, That such fees collected shall not exceed $50 
per loan.
    Sec. 737.  Of the unobligated balances identified by the Treasury 
Appropriation Fund Symbol 12X1072, $20,000,000 is hereby rescinded:  
Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement or for disaster 
relief pursuant to a Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 738.  Of the unobligated prior year funds identified by 
Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbol 12X1980 where obligations have been 
cancelled, $13,000,000 is rescinded.
    Sec. 739.  None of the funds made available by this Act or any 
other Act may be used--
            (1) in contravention of section 7606 of the Agricultural 
        Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940); or
            (2) to prohibit the transportation, processing, sale, or 
        use of industrial hemp that is grown or cultivated in 
        accordance with subsection section 7606 of the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014, within or outside the State in which the industrial 
        hemp is grown or cultivated.
    Sec. 740.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to propose, promulgate, or implement any rule, or take any other action 
with respect to, allowing or requiring information intended for a 
prescribing health care professional, in the case of a drug or 
biological product subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be distributed to such 
professional electronically (in lieu of in paper form) unless and until 
a Federal law is enacted to allow or require such distribution.
    Sec. 741.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for the cost of loans and grants that is 
consistent with section 4206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014, for 
necessary expenses of the Secretary to support projects that provide 
access to healthy food in underserved areas, to create and preserve 
quality jobs, and to revitalize low-income communities.
    Sec. 742.  Notwithstanding any language to the contrary, state 
agricultural experiment stations and state cooperative extension 
services are eligible entities under 7 U.S.C. 3125a-1(a).
    Sec. 743.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the rule entitled ``Importation of 
Beef From a Region in Argentina'' published by the Department of 
Agriculture in the Federal Register on July 2, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 37935 
et seq.) or the rule entitled ``Importation of Beef From a Region in 
Brazil'' published by the Department of Agriculture in the Federal 
Register on July 2, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 37923 et seq.) until the 
Secretary of Agriculture--(1) conducts an updated comprehensive risk 
evaluation of importing beef produced in Argentina and Brazil; and (2) 
updates the Animal Disease Risk Assessment, Prevention, and Control Act 
of 2001 (Public Law 107-9) Final Report issued to Congress in January 
2003 as it relates to economic impacts associated with the potential 
introduction of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), including specific 
actions by Federal agencies to prevent the introduction into or 
dissemination within the United States of FMD, and the sufficiency of 
legislative authority to prevent or control FMD in the United States; 
and (3) reports to Congress on specific steps to implement 
recommendations of the May 2015 GAO Report on Federal Veterinarians and 
workforce needs for emergency response to an animal disease outbreak.
    Sec. 744.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel--
            (1) to inspect horses under section 3 of the Federal Meat 
        Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603);
            (2) to inspect horses under section 903 of the Federal 
        Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 
        note; Public Law 104-127); or
            (3) to implement or enforce section 352.19 of title 9, Code 
        of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).
    Sec. 745. (a) For the period beginning on the date of enactment of 
this Act through school year 2016-2017, with respect to the school 
lunch program established under the Richard B. Russell National School 
Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) or the school breakfast program 
established under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et 
seq.) and final regulations published by the Department of Agriculture 
in the Federal Register on January 26, 2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 4088 et 
seq.), the Secretary shall allow States to grant an exemption from the 
whole grain requirements that took effect on or after July 1, 2014, and 
the States shall establish a process for evaluating and responding, in 
a reasonable amount of time, to requests for an exemption:  Provided, 
That school food authorities demonstrate hardship, including financial 
hardship, in procuring specific whole grain products which are 
acceptable to the students and compliant with the whole grain-rich 
requirements:  Provided further, That school food authorities shall 
comply with the applicable grain component or standard with respect to 
the school lunch or school breakfast program that was in effect prior 
to July 1, 2014.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to implement any regulations under the Richard B. Russell 
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act 
of 2010 (Public Law 111-296), or any other law that would require a 
reduction in the quantity of sodium contained in Federally reimbursed 
meals, foods, and snacks sold in schools below Target 1 (as described 
in section 220.8(f)(3) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
successor regulations)) until the latest scientific research 
establishes the reduction is beneficial for children.
    This division may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, 
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2016''.

     DIVISION B--ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED AGENCIES 
                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016

                                TITLE I

                       CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                       Corps of Engineers--Civil

    The following appropriations shall be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of 
Engineers for authorized civil functions of the Department of the Army 
pertaining to river and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, shore 
protection, aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related efforts.

                             investigations

    For expenses necessary where authorized by law for the collection 
and study of basic information pertaining to river and harbor, flood 
and storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic ecosystem 
restoration, and related needs; for surveys and detailed studies, and 
plans and specifications of proposed river and harbor, flood and storm 
damage reduction, shore protection, and aquatic ecosystem restoration 
projects, and related efforts prior to construction; for restudy of 
authorized projects; and for miscellaneous investigations, and, when 
authorized by law, surveys and detailed studies, and plans and 
specifications of projects prior to construction, $109,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                              construction

    For expenses necessary for the construction of river and harbor, 
flood and storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic ecosystem 
restoration, and related projects authorized by law; for conducting 
detailed studies, and plans and specifications, of such projects 
(including those involving participation by States, local governments, 
or private groups) authorized or made eligible for selection by law 
(but such detailed studies, and plans and specifications, shall not 
constitute a commitment of the Government to construction); 
$1,641,000,000, to remain available until expended; of which such sums 
as are necessary to cover the Federal share of construction costs for 
facilities under the Dredged Material Disposal Facilities program shall 
be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund as authorized by 
Public Law 104-303; and of which such sums as are necessary to cover 
one-half of the costs of construction, replacement, rehabilitation, and 
expansion of inland waterways projects shall be derived from the Inland 
Waterways Trust Fund, except as otherwise specifically provided for in 
law.

                   mississippi river and tributaries

    For expenses necessary for flood damage reduction projects and 
related efforts in the Mississippi River alluvial valley below Cape 
Girardeau, Missouri, as authorized by law, $330,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such sums as are necessary to cover 
the Federal share of eligible operation and maintenance costs for 
inland harbors shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund.

                       operation and maintenance

    For expenses necessary for the operation, maintenance, and care of 
existing river and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, aquatic 
ecosystem restoration, and related projects authorized by law; 
providing security for infrastructure owned or operated by the Corps, 
including administrative buildings and laboratories; maintaining harbor 
channels provided by a State, municipality, or other public agency that 
serve essential navigation needs of general commerce, where authorized 
by law; surveying and charting northern and northwestern lakes and 
connecting waters; clearing and straightening channels; and removing 
obstructions to navigation, $2,909,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which such sums as are necessary to cover the Federal 
share of eligible operation and maintenance costs for coastal harbors 
and channels, and for inland harbors shall be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund; of which such sums as become available from the 
special account for the Corps of Engineers established by the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 shall be derived from that account 
for resource protection, research, interpretation, and maintenance 
activities related to resource protection in the areas at which outdoor 
recreation is available; and of which such sums as become available 
from fees collected under section 217 of Public Law 104-303 shall be 
used to cover the cost of operation and maintenance of the dredged 
material disposal facilities for which such fees have been collected:  
Provided, That 1 percent of the total amount of funds provided for each 
of the programs, projects, or activities funded under this heading 
shall not be allocated to a field operating activity prior to the 
beginning of the fourth quarter of the fiscal year and shall be 
available for use by the Chief of Engineers to fund such emergency 
activities as the Chief of Engineers determines to be necessary and 
appropriate, and that the Chief of Engineers shall allocate during the 
fourth quarter any remaining funds which have not been used for 
emergency activities proportionally in accordance with the amounts 
provided for the programs, projects, or activities.

                           regulatory program

    For expenses necessary for administration of laws pertaining to 
regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017.

            formerly utilized sites remedial action program

    For expenses necessary to clean up contamination from sites in the 
United States resulting from work performed as part of the Nation's 
early atomic energy program, $101,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                 flood control and coastal emergencies

    For expenses necessary to prepare for flood, hurricane, and other 
natural disasters and support emergency operations, repairs, and other 
activities in response to such disasters as authorized by law, 
$28,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                expenses

    For expenses necessary for the supervision and general 
administration of the civil works program in the headquarters of the 
Corps of Engineers and the offices of the Division Engineers; and for 
costs of management and operation of the Humphreys Engineer Center 
Support Activity, the Institute for Water Resources, the United States 
Army Engineer Research and Development Center, and the United States 
Army Corps of Engineers Finance Center allocable to the civil works 
program, $178,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, of 
which not to exceed $5,000 may be used for official reception and 
representation purposes and only during the current fiscal year:  
Provided, That no part of any other appropriation provided in this 
title shall be available to fund the civil works activities of the 
Office of the Chief of Engineers or the civil works executive direction 
and management activities of the division offices:  Provided further, 
That any Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies appropriation may be 
used to fund the supervision and general administration of emergency 
operations, repairs, and other activities in response to any flood, 
hurricane, or other natural disaster.

     office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works

    For the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil 
Works as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3016(b)(3), $3,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

              (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    Sec. 101. (a) None of the funds provided in title I of this Act, or 
provided by previous appropriations Acts to the agencies or entities 
funded in title I of this Act that remain available for obligation or 
expenditure in fiscal year 2016, shall be available for obligation or 
expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that:
            (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
        this Act, unless prior approval is received from the House and 
        Senate Committees on Appropriations;
            (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
        for a different purpose, unless prior approval is received from 
        the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations;
            (5) augments or reduces existing programs, projects or 
        activities in excess of the amounts contained in subsections 6 
        through 10, unless prior approval is received from the House 
        and Senate Committees on Appropriations;
            (6) Investigations.--For a base level over $100,000, 
        reprogramming of 25 percent of the base amount up to a limit of 
        $150,000 per project, study or activity is allowed:  Provided, 
        That for a base level less than $100,000, the reprogramming 
        limit is $25,000:  Provided further, That up to $25,000 may be 
        reprogrammed into any continuing study or activity that did not 
        receive an appropriation for existing obligations and 
        concomitant administrative expenses;
            (7) Construction.--For a base level over $2,000,000, 
        reprogramming of 15 percent of the base amount up to a limit of 
        $3,000,000 per project, study or activity is allowed:  
        Provided, That for a base level less than $2,000,000, the 
        reprogramming limit is $300,000:  Provided further, That up to 
        $3,000,000 may be reprogrammed for settled contractor claims, 
        changed conditions, or real estate deficiency judgments:  
        Provided further, That up to $300,000 may be reprogrammed into 
        any continuing study or activity that did not receive an 
        appropriation for existing obligations and concomitant 
        administrative expenses;
            (8) Operations and maintenance.--Unlimited reprogramming 
        authority is granted in order for the Corps to be able to 
        respond to emergencies:  Provided, That the Chief of Engineers 
        must notify the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
        of these emergency actions as soon thereafter as practicable:  
        Provided further, That for a base level over $1,000,000, 
        reprogramming of 15 percent of the base amount a limit of 
        $5,000,000 per project, study or activity is allowed:  Provided 
        further, That for a base level less than $1,000,000, the 
        reprogramming limit is $150,000:  Provided further, That 
        $150,000 may be reprogrammed into any continuing study or 
        activity that did not receive an appropriation;
            (9) Mississippi river and tributaries.--The same 
        reprogramming guidelines for the Investigations, Construction, 
        and Operation and Maintenance portions of the Mississippi River 
        and Tributaries Account as listed above; and
            (10) Formerly utilized sites remedial action program.--
        Reprogramming of up to 15 percent of the base of the receiving 
        project is permitted.
    (b) De Minimus Reprogrammings.--In no case should a reprogramming 
for less than $50,000 be submitted to the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations.
    (c) Continuing Authorities Program.--Subsection (a)(1) shall not 
apply to any project or activity funded under the continuing 
authorities program.
    (d) Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Corps of Engineers shall submit a report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations to establish the baseline for application 
of reprogramming and transfer authorities for the current fiscal year:  
Provided, That the report shall include:
            (1) A table for each appropriation with a separate column 
        to display the President's budget request, adjustments made by 
        Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
        applicable, and the fiscal year enacted level;
            (2) A delineation in the table for each appropriation both 
        by object class and program, project and activity as detailed 
        in the budget appendix for the respective appropriations; and
            (3) An identification of items of special congressional 
        interest.
    Sec. 102. (a) Of the funds made available in prior appropriations 
Acts for water resources efforts under the headings ``Corps of 
Engineers-Civil, Department of the Army, Construction'' that remain 
unobligated as of the date of enactment of this Act, including amounts 
specified in law for particular projects, programs, or activities, 
$128,000,000 is rescinded.
    (b) None of the funds under subsection (a) may be rescinded from 
amounts that the Congress designated as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.
    Sec. 103.  The Secretary of the Army may transfer to the Fish and 
Wildlife Service, and the Fish and Wildlife Service may accept and 
expend, up to $4,700,000 of funds provided in this title under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' to mitigate for fisheries lost 
due to Corps of Engineers projects.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act making appropriations for Energy and Water Development for any 
fiscal year may be used by the Corps of Engineers during the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2016, to develop, adopt, implement, 
administer, or enforce any change to the regulations in effect on 
October 1, 2012, pertaining to the definitions of the terms ``fill 
material'' or ``discharge of fill material'' for the purposes of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.).

                        project deauthorization

    Sec. 105. (a) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall execute a transfer agreement with the 
South Florida Water Management District for the project identified as 
the ``Ten Mile Creek Water Preserve Area Critical Restoration 
Project'', carried out under section 528(b)(3) of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1996 (110 Stat. 3768).
    (b) The transfer agreement under subsection (a) shall require the 
South Florida Water Management District to operate the transferred 
project as an environmental restoration project to provide water 
storage and water treatment options.
    (c) Upon execution of the transfer agreement under subsection (a), 
the Ten Mile Creek Water Preserve Area Critical Restoration Project 
shall no longer be authorized as a Federal project.
    Sec. 106.  Section 5032(a)(2) of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-114; 121 Stat. 1205) is amended by striking 
``15'' and inserting ``20''.
    Sec. 107. (a) No funds made available in this Act or any prior Act 
shall be available to reallocate water within the Alabama-Coosa-
Tallapoosa (ACT) river basin, or any study thereof, until the Corps of 
Engineers has executed a Partnering Agreement with Alabama and Georgia 
outlining the participation of each State in a water reallocation study 
for the ACT river basin.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall apply to the use of 
contributed or other non-Federal funds.

                                TITLE II

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                central utah project completion account

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Central Utah Project 
Completion Act, $9,874,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $1,000,000 shall be deposited into the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use by the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Commission:  Provided, That, of the amount 
provided under this heading, $1,350,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2017, for expenses necessary in carrying out related 
responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior:  Provided further, 
That, for fiscal year 2016, of the amount made available to the 
Commission under this Act or any other Act, the Commission may use an 
amount not to exceed $1,500,000 for administrative expenses.

                         Bureau of Reclamation

    The following appropriations shall be expended to execute 
authorized functions of the Bureau of Reclamation:

                      water and related resources

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For management, development, and restoration of water and related 
natural resources and for related activities, including the operation, 
maintenance, and rehabilitation of reclamation and other facilities, 
participation in fulfilling related Federal responsibilities to Native 
Americans, and related grants to, and cooperative and other agreements 
with, State and local governments, federally recognized Indian tribes, 
and others, $988,131,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$22,000 shall be available for transfer to the Upper Colorado River 
Basin Fund and $5,899,000 shall be available for transfer to the Lower 
Colorado River Basin Development Fund; of which such amounts as may be 
necessary may be advanced to the Colorado River Dam Fund:  Provided, 
That such transfers may be increased or decreased within the overall 
appropriation under this heading:  Provided further, That, of the total 
appropriated, the amount for program activities that can be financed by 
the Reclamation Fund or the Bureau of Reclamation special fee account 
established by 16 U.S.C. 6806 shall be derived from that Fund or 
account:  Provided further, That funds contributed under 43 U.S.C. 395 
are available until expended for the purposes for which the funds were 
contributed:  Provided further, That funds advanced under 43 U.S.C. 
397a shall be credited to this account and are available until expended 
for the same purposes as the sums appropriated under this heading:  
Provided further, That, of the amounts provided herein, funds may be 
used for high-priority projects which shall be carried out by the Youth 
Conservation Corps, as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1706.

                central valley project restoration fund

    For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, habitat 
restoration, improvement, and acquisition provisions of the Central 
Valley Project Improvement Act, $49,528,000, to be derived from such 
sums as may be collected in the Central Valley Project Restoration Fund 
pursuant to sections 3407(d), 3404(c)(3), and 3405(f) of Public Law 
102-575, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the Bureau 
of Reclamation is directed to assess and collect the full amount of the 
additional mitigation and restoration payments authorized by section 
3407(d) of Public Law 102-575:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available under this heading may be used for the acquisition 
or leasing of water for in-stream purposes if the water is already 
committed to in-stream purposes by a court adopted decree or order.

                    california bay-delta restoration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Water Supply, 
Reliability, and Environmental Improvement Act, consistent with plans 
to be approved by the Secretary of the Interior, $37,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such amounts as may be necessary to 
carry out such activities may be transferred to appropriate accounts of 
other participating Federal agencies to carry out authorized purposes:  
Provided, That funds appropriated herein may be used for the Federal 
share of the costs of CALFED Program management:  Provided further, 
That CALFED implementation shall be carried out in a balanced manner 
with clear performance measures demonstrating concurrent progress in 
achieving the goals and objectives of the Program.

                       policy and administration

    For expenses necessary for policy, administration, and related 
functions in the Office of the Commissioner, the Denver office, and 
offices in the five regions of the Bureau of Reclamation, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017, $58,500,000, to be derived from the 
Reclamation Fund and be nonreimbursable as provided in 43 U.S.C. 377:  
Provided, That no part of any other appropriation in this Act shall be 
available for activities or functions budgeted as policy and 
administration expenses.

                        administrative provision

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be available for 
purchase of not to exceed five passenger motor vehicles, which are for 
replacement only.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 201. (a) None of the funds provided in this title shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of 
funds that--
            (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
        for which funds have been denied or restricted by this Act;
            (4) restarts or resumes any program, project or activity 
        for which funds are not provided in this Act, unless prior 
        approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
        both Houses of Congress;
            (5) transfers funds in excess of the following limits--
                    (A) 15 percent for any program, project or activity 
                for which $2,000,000 or more is available at the 
                beginning of the fiscal year; or
                    (B) $300,000 for any program, project or activity 
                for which less than $2,000,000 is available at the 
                beginning of the fiscal year;
            (6) transfers more than $500,000 from either the Facilities 
        Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation category or the 
        Resources Management and Development category to any program, 
        project, or activity in the other category; or
            (7) transfers, when necessary to discharge legal 
        obligations of the Bureau of Reclamation, more than $5,000,000 
        to provide adequate funds for settled contractor claims, 
        increased contractor earnings due to accelerated rates of 
        operations, and real estate deficiency judgments.
    (b) Subsection (a)(5) shall not apply to any transfer of funds 
within the Facilities Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation 
category.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``transfer'' means any 
movement of funds into or out of a program, project, or activity.
    (d) The Bureau of Reclamation shall submit reports on a quarterly 
basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
detailing all the funds reprogrammed between programs, projects, 
activities, or categories of funding. The first quarterly report shall 
be submitted not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    Sec. 202. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to determine the final point of 
discharge for the interceptor drain for the San Luis Unit until 
development by the Secretary of the Interior and the State of 
California of a plan, which shall conform to the water quality 
standards of the State of California as approved by the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency, to minimize any detrimental 
effect of the San Luis drainage waters.
    (b) The costs of the Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program and the 
costs of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program shall be classified by 
the Secretary of the Interior as reimbursable or nonreimbursable and 
collected until fully repaid pursuant to the ``Cleanup Program--
Alternative Repayment Plan'' and the ``SJVDP--Alternative Repayment 
Plan'' described in the report entitled ``Repayment Report, Kesterson 
Reservoir Cleanup Program and San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program, 
February 1995'', prepared by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Reclamation. Any future obligations of funds by the United States 
relating to, or providing for, drainage service or drainage studies for 
the San Luis Unit shall be fully reimbursable by San Luis Unit 
beneficiaries of such service or studies pursuant to Federal 
reclamation law.
    Sec. 203.  Section 9504(e) of the Secure Water Act of 2009 (42 
U.S.C. 10364(e)) is amended by striking ``$300,000,000'' and inserting 
``$500,000,000''.
    Sec. 204.  Title I of Public Law 108-361 (the Calfed Bay-Delta 
Authorization Act) (118 Stat. 1681), as amended by section 210 of 
Public Law 111-85, is amended by striking ``2016'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``2020''.
    Sec. 205.  The Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978 is amended 
by--
            (1) striking ``Construction'' and inserting ``Except as 
        provided in section 5B, construction'' in section 3; and
            (2) inserting after section 5A (43 U.S.C. 509a) the 
        following:
    ``Sec. 5B.  Notwithstanding section 3, if the Secretary, in her 
judgment, determines that additional project benefits, including but 
not limited to additional conservation storage capacity, are necessary 
and in the interests of the United States and the project and are 
feasible and not inconsistent with the purposes of this Act, the 
Secretary is authorized to develop additional project benefits through 
the construction of new or supplementary works on a project in 
conjunction with the Secretary's activities under section 2 of this Act 
and subject to the conditions described in the feasibility study, 
provided the costs associated with developing the additional project 
benefits are allocated to the authorized purposes of the project that 
have a benefit, a cost share agreement related to the additional 
project benefits is reached among State and Federal funding agencies 
and repaid consistent with all provisions of Federal Reclamation law 
(the Act of June 17, 1902, 43 U.S.C. 371 et seq.) and acts supplemental 
to and amendatory of that Act.''.
    Sec. 206.  Section 5 of the Reclamation Safety of Dams Act of 1978 
(43 U.S.C. 509) is amended in the first sentence--
     (a) by inserting ``and effective October 1, 2015, not to exceed an 
additional $1,100,000,000 (October 1, 2003, price levels),'' after 
``(October 1, 2003, price levels),'';
    (b) in the proviso--
            (1) by striking ``$1,250,000'' and inserting 
        ``$20,000,000''; and
            (2) by striking ``Congress'' and inserting ``Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following: ``For modification 
        expenditures between $1,800,000 and $20,000,000 (October 1, 
        2013, price levels), the Secretary of the Interior shall, at 
        least 30 days before the date on which the funds are expended, 
        submit written notice of the expenditures to the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and Committee 
        on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate that provides a 
        summary of the project, the cost of the project, and any 
        alternatives that were considered.''.
    Sec. 207.  The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Commissioner of Reclamation, shall--
     (a) complete the feasibility studies described in clauses (i)(I) 
and (ii)(II) of section 103(d)(1)(A) of Public Law 108-361 (118 Stat. 
1684) and submit such studies to the appropriate committees of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate not later than December 31, 
2015;
    (b) complete the feasibility study described in clause (i)(II) of 
section 103(d)(1)(A) of Public Law 108-361 and submit such study to the 
appropriate committees of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
not later than November 30, 2016;
    (c) complete a publicly available draft feasibility study for the 
project described in clause (ii)(I) of section 103(d)(1)(A) of Public 
Law 108-361 and submit such study to the appropriate committees of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate not later than November 30, 
2016;
    (d) complete the feasibility study described in clause (ii)(I) of 
section 103(d)(1)(A) of Public Law 108-361 and submit such study to the 
appropriate committees of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
not later than November 30, 2017;
    (e) complete the feasibility study described in section 
103(f)(1)(A) of Public Law 108-361 (118 Stat. 1694) and submit such 
study to the appropriate committees of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate not later than December 31, 2017; and
    (f) provide a progress report on the status of the feasibility 
studies referred to in paragraphs (1) through (3) to the appropriate 
committees of the House of Representatives and the Senate not later 
than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and each 180 
days thereafter until December 31, 2017, as applicable. The report 
shall include timelines for study completion, draft environmental 
impact statements, final environmental impact statements, and Records 
of Decision.
    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, funds 
provided by this Act for California Bay-Delta Restoration may be used 
to deliver water to the Trinity River above the minimum requirements of 
the Trinity Record of Decision or to supplement flows in the Klamath 
River.
    Sec. 209.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, funds 
made available by this Act for Central Valley Project Restoration Fund 
may be used for all authorized activities necessary to supplement or 
enhance the instream flow requirements in the State of California that 
are mandated under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 and the Central 
Valley Project Improvement Act.

                               TITLE III

                          DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                            ENERGY PROGRAMS

                 Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy

              (including transfer and rescission of funds)

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for energy efficiency and renewable energy 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $1,950,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That, of such amount, 
$160,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2017, for program 
direction:  Provided further, That, of the amount provided under this 
heading, the Secretary may transfer up to $45,000,000 to the Defense 
Production Act Fund for activities of the Department of Energy pursuant 
to the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2061, et seq.).

              Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for electricity delivery and energy reliability 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $152,306,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That, of such amount, 
$27,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2017, for program 
direction.

                             Nuclear Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for nuclear energy activities in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 
et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $950,161,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That, of such amount, $80,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2017, for program direction including 
official reception and representation expenses not to exceed $10,000:  
Provided, That, of such amount, $24,000,000 shall be derived from the 
Nuclear Waste Fund.

                 Fossil Energy Research and Development

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out fossil 
energy research and development activities, under the authority of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition of interest, including defeasible and 
equitable interests in any real property or any facility or for plant 
or facility acquisition or expansion, and for conducting inquiries, 
technological investigations and research concerning the extraction, 
processing, use, and disposal of mineral substances without 
objectionable social and environmental costs (30 U.S.C. 3, 1602, and 
1603), $610,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That, of such amount, $115,000,000 shall be available until September 
30, 2017, for program direction.

                 Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary to carry out naval 
petroleum and oil shale reserve activities, $17,500,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, unobligated funds remaining from prior years shall be 
available for all naval petroleum and oil shale reserve activities.

                      Strategic Petroleum Reserve

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve facility development and operations and program management 
activities pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $200,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for Northeast Home 
Heating Oil Reserve storage, operation, and management activities 
pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6201 et 
seq.), $7,600,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Energy Information Administration

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out the 
activities of the Energy Information Administration, $122,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                   Non-Defense Environmental Cleanup

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for non-defense environmental cleanup activities in 
carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of 
any real property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $244,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

      Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out uranium 
enrichment facility decontamination and decommissioning, remedial 
actions, and other activities of title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, and title X, subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, 
$614,000,000, to be derived from the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination 
and Decommissioning Fund, to remain available until expended, of which 
$32,959,000 shall be available in accordance with title X, subtitle A, 
of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.

                                Science

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for science activities in carrying out the purposes 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, and purchase of not more than 17 passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement only, including one ambulance and one bus, 
$5,143,877,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That, of 
such amount, $185,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2017, 
for program direction.

               Advanced Research Projects Agency--Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary in carrying out the 
activities authorized by section 5012 of the America COMPETES Act 
(Public Law 110-69), $291,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That, of such amount, $28,000,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2017, for program direction.

         Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program

    Such sums as are derived from amounts received from borrowers 
pursuant to section 1702(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 under this 
heading in prior Acts, shall be collected in accordance with section 
502(7) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided, That, for 
necessary administrative expenses to carry out this Loan Guarantee 
program, $42,000,000 is appropriated, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That $25,000,000 of the fees 
collected pursuant to section 1702(h) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 
shall be credited as offsetting collections to this account to cover 
administrative expenses and shall remain available until expended, so 
as to result in a final fiscal year 2016 appropriation from the general 
fund estimated at not more than $17,000,000:  Provided further, That 
fees collected under section 1702(h) in excess of the amount 
appropriated for administrative expenses shall not be available until 
appropriated:  Provided further, That the Department of Energy shall 
not subordinate any loan obligation to other financing in violation of 
section 1702 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 or subordinate any 
Guaranteed Obligation to any loan or other debt obligations in 
violation of section 609.10 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations.

        Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program

    For Department of Energy administrative expenses necessary in 
carrying out the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan 
Program, $6,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

                      Departmental Administration

    For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy necessary for 
departmental administration in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
$248,142,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, including 
the hire of passenger motor vehicles and official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $30,000, plus such additional 
amounts as necessary to cover increases in the estimated amount of cost 
of work for others notwithstanding the provisions of the Anti-
Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1511 et seq.):  Provided, That such increases 
in cost of work are offset by revenue increases of the same or greater 
amount:  Provided further, That moneys received by the Department for 
miscellaneous revenues estimated to total $117,171,000 in fiscal year 
2016 may be retained and used for operating expenses within this 
account, as authorized by section 201 of Public Law 95-238, 
notwithstanding the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3302:  Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as collections are 
received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2016 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than 
$130,971,000:  Provided further, That, of the total amount made 
available under this heading, $31,297,000 is for Energy Policy and 
Systems Analysis.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$46,424,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

                           Weapons Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense weapons 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $8,882,364,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, 
$97,118,000 shall be available until September 30, 2017, for program 
direction.

                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for defense nuclear nonproliferation 
activities, in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $1,705,912,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                             Naval Reactors

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for naval reactors 
activities to carry out the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition (by purchase, 
condemnation, construction, or otherwise) of real property, plant, and 
capital equipment, facilities, and facility expansion, $1,300,000,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That of such amount, 
$42,504,000 shall be available until September 30, 2017, for program 
direction.

                     Federal Salaries and Expenses

    For expenses necessary for Federal Salaries and Expenses in the 
National Nuclear Security Administration, $375,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017, including official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $12,000.

               ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                     Defense Environmental Cleanup

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for atomic energy defense environmental cleanup 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, and the purchase of 
not to exceed one fire apparatus pumper truck and one armored vehicle 
for replacement only, $5,180,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That, of such amount, $281,951,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2017, for program direction:  Provided 
further, That the Office of Environmental Management shall not accept 
ownership or responsibility for cleanup of any National Nuclear 
Security Administration facilities or sites without funding 
specifically designated for that purpose in an Appropriations Act at 
the time of transfer.

     Defense Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for atomic energy defense environmental 
cleanup activities for Department of Energy contributions for uranium 
enrichment decontamination and decommissioning activities, 
$614,000,000, to be deposited into the Defense Environmental Cleanup 
account which shall be transferred to the ``Uranium Enrichment 
Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund''.

                        Other Defense Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses, necessary for atomic energy defense, other defense 
activities, and classified activities, in carrying out the purposes of 
the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $764,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That, of such amount, $249,137,000 shall be available until September 
30, 2017, for program direction.

                    POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS

                  Bonneville Power Administration Fund

    Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for the 
Shoshone Paiute Trout Hatchery, the Spokane Tribal Hatchery, the Snake 
River Sockeye Weirs and, in addition, for official reception and 
representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $5,000:  Provided, 
That, during fiscal year 2016, no new direct loan obligations may be 
made.

     Operations and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

    For expenses necessary for operations and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and for marketing electric power and energy, 
including transmission wheeling and ancillary services, pursuant to 
section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied 
to the southeastern power area, $6,900,000, including official 
reception and representation expenses in an amount not to exceed 
$1,500, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and section 5 of the Flood Control Act 
of 1944, up to $6,900,000 collected by the Southeastern Power 
Administration from the sale of power and related services shall be 
credited to this account as discretionary offsetting collections, to 
remain available until expended for the sole purpose of funding the 
annual expenses of the Southeastern Power Administration:  Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated for annual expenses shall be 
reduced as collections are received during the fiscal year so as to 
result in a final fiscal year 2016 appropriation estimated at not more 
than $0:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to 
$66,500,000 collected by the Southeastern Power Administration pursuant 
to the Flood Control Act of 1944 to recover purchase power and wheeling 
expenses shall be credited to this account as offsetting collections, 
to remain available until expended for the sole purpose of making 
purchase power and wheeling expenditures:  Provided further, That, for 
purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that 
are generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred 
(excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses).

     Operations and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

    For expenses necessary for operations and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and for marketing electric power and energy, 
for construction and acquisition of transmission lines, substations and 
appurtenant facilities, and for administrative expenses, including 
official reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
exceed $1,500 in carrying out section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 
1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the Southwestern Power 
Administration, $47,361,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and section 5 of the 
Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), up to $35,961,000 collected 
by the Southwestern Power Administration from the sale of power and 
related services shall be credited to this account as discretionary 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended, for the 
sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Southwestern Power 
Administration:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated for 
annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 2016 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $11,400,000:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $63,000,000 collected by the 
Southwestern Power Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 
1944 to recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be credited 
to this account as offsetting collections, to remain available until 
expended for the sole purpose of making purchase power and wheeling 
expenditures:  Provided further, That, for purposes of this 
appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that are generally 
recovered in the same year that they are incurred (excluding purchase 
power and wheeling expenses).

Construction, Rehabilitation, Operations and Maintenance, Western Area 
                          Power Administration

    For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, section 
302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7152), and other 
related activities including conservation and renewable resources 
programs as authorized, $307,714,000, including official reception and 
representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, to remain 
available until expended, of which $302,000,000 shall be derived from 
the Department of the Interior Reclamation Fund:  Provided, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 
1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), and section 1 of the Interior Department 
Appropriation Act, 1939 (43 U.S.C. 392a), up to $214,342,000 collected 
by the Western Area Power Administration from the sale of power and 
related services shall be credited to this account as discretionary 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended, for the 
sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Western Area Power 
Administration:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated for 
annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 2016 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $93,372,000, of which $87,658,000 is derived 
from the Reclamation Fund:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, up to $352,813,000 collected by the Western Area Power 
Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1944 and the 
Reclamation Project Act of 1939 to recover purchase power and wheeling 
expenses shall be credited to this account as offsetting collections, 
to remain available until expended for the sole purpose of making 
purchase power and wheeling expenditures:  Provided further, That, for 
purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that 
are generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred 
(excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses).

           Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund

    For operations, maintenance, and emergency costs for the 
hydroelectric facilities at the Falcon and Amistad Dams, $4,490,000, to 
remain available until expended, and to be derived from the Falcon and 
Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund of the Western Area Power 
Administration, as provided in section 2 of the Act of June 18, 1954 
(68 Stat. 255):  Provided, That, notwithstanding the provisions of that 
Act and of 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $4,262,000 collected by the Western 
Area Power Administration from the sale of power and related services 
from the Falcon and Amistad Dams shall be credited to this account as 
discretionary offsetting collections, to remain available until 
expended for the sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the 
hydroelectric facilities of these Dams and associated Western Area 
Power Administration activities:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are 
received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2016 appropriation estimated at not more than $228,000:  Provided 
further, That, for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses 
means expenditures that are generally recovered in the same year that 
they are incurred:  Provided further, That, for fiscal year 2016, the 
Administrator of the Western Area Power Administration may accept up to 
$460,000 in funds contributed by United States power customers of the 
Falcon and Amistad Dams for deposit into the Falcon and Amistad 
Operating and Maintenance Fund, and such funds shall be available for 
the purpose for which contributed in like manner as if said sums had 
been specifically appropriated for such purpose:  Provided further, 
That any such funds shall be available without further appropriation 
and without fiscal year limitation for use by the Commissioner of the 
United States Section of the International Boundary and Water 
Commission for the sole purpose of operating, maintaining, repairing, 
rehabilitating, replacing, or upgrading the hydroelectric facilities at 
these Dams in accordance with agreements reached between the 
Administrator, Commissioner, and the power customers.

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to carry out the provisions of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $3,000, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles, $319,800,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, not to exceed $319,800,000 of revenues from 
fees and annual charges, and other services and collections in fiscal 
year 2016 shall be retained and used for expenses necessary in this 
account, and shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced 
as revenues are received during fiscal year 2016 so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2016 appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
not more than $0.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

             (including transfer and rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 301. (a) No appropriation, funds, or authority made available 
by this title for the Department of Energy shall be used to initiate or 
resume any program, project, or activity or to prepare or initiate 
Requests For Proposals or similar arrangements (including Requests for 
Quotations, Requests for Information, and Funding Opportunity 
Announcements) for a program, project, or activity if the program, 
project, or activity has not been funded by Congress.
    (b)(1) Unless the Secretary of Energy notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 3 full business days 
in advance, none of the funds made available in this title may be used 
to--
            (A) make a grant allocation or discretionary grant award 
        totaling $1,000,000 or more;
            (B) make a discretionary contract award or Other 
        Transaction Agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more, including a 
        contract covered by the Federal Acquisition Regulation;
            (C) issue a letter of intent to make an allocation, award, 
        or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A) or 
        (B); or
            (D) announce publicly the intention to make an allocation, 
        award, or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A) 
        or (B).
    (2) The Secretary of Energy shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress within 15 days of the 
conclusion of each quarter a report detailing each grant allocation or 
discretionary grant award totaling less than $1,000,000 provided during 
the previous quarter.
    (3) The notification required by paragraph (1) and the report 
required by paragraph (2) shall include the recipient of the award, the 
amount of the award, the fiscal year for which the funds for the award 
were appropriated, the account and program, project, or activity from 
which the funds are being drawn, the title of the award, and a brief 
description of the activity for which the award is made.
    (c) The Department of Energy may not, with respect to any program, 
project, or activity that uses budget authority made available in this 
title under the heading ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs'', 
enter into a multiyear contract, award a multiyear grant, or enter into 
a multiyear cooperative agreement unless--
            (1) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is funded 
        for the full period of performance as anticipated at the time 
        of award; or
            (2) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement includes 
        a clause conditioning the Federal Government's obligation on 
        the availability of future year budget authority and the 
        Secretary notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
        Houses of Congress at least 3 days in advance.
    (d) Except as provided in subsections (e), (f), and (g), the 
amounts made available by this title shall be expended as authorized by 
law for the programs, projects, and activities specified in the 
``Bill'' column in the ``Department of Energy'' table included under 
the heading ``Title III--Department of Energy'' in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act.
    (e) The amounts made available by this title may be reprogrammed 
for any program, project, or activity, and the Department shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 
days prior to the use of any proposed reprogramming that would cause 
any program, project, or activity funding level to increase or decrease 
by more than $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, during the 
time period covered by this Act.
    (f) None of the funds provided in this title shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates, initiates, or eliminates a program, project, 
        or activity;
            (2) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds are denied or restricted by this 
        Act; or
            (3) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
        specific program, project, or activity by this Act.
    (g)(1) The Secretary of Energy may waive any requirement or 
restriction in this section that applies to the use of funds made 
available for the Department of Energy if compliance with such 
requirement or restriction would pose a substantial risk to human 
health, the environment, welfare, or national security.
    (2) The Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of any waiver under paragraph 
(1) as soon as practicable, but not later than 3 days after the date of 
the activity to which a requirement or restriction would otherwise have 
applied. Such notice shall include an explanation of the substantial 
risk under paragraph (1) that permitted such waiver.
    Sec. 302.  The unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided 
for activities in this Act may be available to the same appropriation 
accounts for such activities established pursuant to this title. 
Available balances may be merged with funds in the applicable 
established accounts and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund 
for the same time period as originally enacted.
    Sec. 303.  Funds appropriated by this or any other Act, or made 
available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414) during fiscal year 2016 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2016.
    Sec. 304.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used for the construction of facilities classified as high-hazard 
nuclear facilities under 10 CFR Part 830 unless independent oversight 
is conducted by the Office of Independent Enterprise Assessments to 
ensure the project is in compliance with nuclear safety requirements.
    Sec. 305.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to approve critical decision-2 or critical decision-3 under 
Department of Energy Order 413.3B, or any successive departmental 
guidance, for construction projects where the total project cost 
exceeds $100,000,000, until a separate independent cost estimate has 
been developed for the project for that critical decision.
    Sec. 306. (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Affected indian tribe.--The term ``affected Indian 
        tribe'' has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the 
        Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101).
            (2) High-level radioactive waste.--The term ``high-level 
        radioactive waste'' has the meaning given the term in section 2 
        of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101).
            (3) Nuclear waste fund.--The term ``Nuclear Waste Fund'' 
        means the Nuclear Waste Fund established under section 302(c) 
        of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10222(c)).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (5) Spent nuclear fuel.--The term ``spent nuclear fuel'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Nuclear 
        Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101).
    (b) Pilot Program.--Notwithstanding any provision of the Nuclear 
Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101 et seq.), the Secretary is 
authorized, in the current fiscal year and subsequent fiscal years, to 
conduct a pilot program, through 1 or more private sector partners, to 
license, construct, and operate 1 or more government or privately owned 
consolidated storage facilities to provide interim storage as needed 
for spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste, with priority 
for storage given to spent nuclear fuel located on sites without an 
operating nuclear reactor.
    (c) Requests for Proposals.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a request for 
proposals for cooperative agreements--
            (1) to obtain any license necessary from the Nuclear 
        Regulatory Commission for the construction of 1 or more 
        consolidated storage facilities;
            (2) to demonstrate the safe transportation of spent nuclear 
        fuel and high-level radioactive waste, as applicable; and
            (3) to demonstrate the safe storage of spent nuclear fuel 
        and high-level radioactive waste, as applicable, at the 1 or 
        more consolidated storage facilities pending the construction 
        and operation of deep geologic disposal capacity for the 
        permanent disposal of the spent nuclear fuel.
    (d) Consent-Based Approval.--Prior to siting a consolidated storage 
facility pursuant to this section, the Secretary shall enter into an 
agreement to host the facility with--
            (1) the Governor of the State;
            (2) each unit of local government within the jurisdiction 
        of which the facility is proposed to be located; and
            (3) each affected Indian tribe.
    (e) Applicability.--In executing this section, the Secretary shall 
comply with--
            (1) all licensing requirements and regulations of the 
        Nuclear Regulatory Commission; and
            (2) all other applicable laws (including regulations).
    (f) Pilot Program Plan.--Not later than 120 days after the date on 
which the Secretary issues the request for proposals under subsection 
(c), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a plan to carry out this 
section that includes--
            (1) an estimate of the cost of licensing, constructing, and 
        operating a consolidated storage facility, including the 
        transportation costs, on an annual basis, over the expected 
        lifetime of the facility;
            (2) a schedule for--
                    (A) obtaining any license necessary to construct 
                and operate a consolidated storage facility from the 
                Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
                    (B) constructing the facility;
                    (C) transporting spent fuel to the facility; and
                    (D) removing the spent fuel and decommissioning the 
                facility; and
            (3) an estimate of the cost of any financial assistance, 
        compensation, or incentives proposed to be paid to the host 
        State, Indian tribe, or local government;
            (4) an estimate of any future reductions in the damages 
        expected to be paid by the United States for the delay of the 
        Department of Energy in accepting spent fuel expected to result 
        from the pilot program;
            (5) recommendations for any additional legislation needed 
        to authorize and implement the pilot program; and
            (6) recommendations for a mechanism to ensure that any 
        spent nuclear fuel or high-level radioactive waste stored at a 
        consolidated storage facility pursuant to this section shall 
        move to deep geologic disposal capacity, following a consent-
        based approval process for that deep geologic disposal capacity 
        consistent with subsection (d), within a reasonable time after 
        the issuance of a license to construct and operate the 
        consolidated storage facility.
    (g) Public Participation.--Prior to choosing a site for the 
construction of a consolidated storage facility under this section, the 
Secretary shall conduct 1 or more public hearings in the vicinity of 
each potential site and in at least 1 other location within the State 
in which the site is located to solicit public comments and 
recommendations.
    (h) Use of Nuclear Waste Fund.--The Secretary may make expenditures 
from the Nuclear Waste Fund to carry out this section, subject to 
appropriations.
    Sec. 307. (a) Notification of Strategic Petroleum Reserve 
Drawdown.--None of the funds made available by this Act or any prior or 
subsequent Act, or funds made available in the SPR Petroleum Account, 
may be used in this fiscal year or each subsequent fiscal year, to 
conduct a drawdown (including a test drawdown) and sale or exchange of 
petroleum products from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve unless the 
Secretary of Energy provides notice, in accordance with subsection (b), 
of such exchange, or drawdown (including a test drawdown) to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    (b)(1) Content of notification.--The notification required under 
subsection (a) shall include at a minimum--
            (A) the justification for the drawdown or exchange, 
        including--
                    (i) a specific description of any obligation under 
                international energy agreements; and
                    (ii) in the case of a test drawdown, the specific 
                aspects of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to be 
                tested;
            (B) the provisions of law (including regulations) 
        authorizing the drawdown or exchange;
            (C) the number of barrels of petroleum products proposed to 
        be withdrawn or exchanged;
            (D) the location of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve site or 
        sites from which the petroleum products are proposed to be 
        withdrawn;
            (E) a good faith estimate of the expected proceeds from the 
        sale of the petroleum products;
            (F) an estimate of the total inventories of petroleum 
        products in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve after the 
        anticipated drawdown;
            (G) a detailed plan for disposition of the proceeds after 
        deposit into the SPR Petroleum Account; and
            (H) a plan for refilling the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, 
        including whether the acquisition will be of the same or a 
        different petroleum product.
            (2) Timing of notification.--The Secretary shall provide 
        the notification required under subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the case of an exchange or a drawdown, as 
                soon as practicable after the exchange or drawdown has 
                occurred; and
                    (B) in the case of a test drawdown, not later than 
                30 days prior to the test drawdown.
    (c) Post-Sale Notification.--In addition to reporting requirements 
under other provisions of law, the Secretary shall, upon the execution 
of all contract awards in this fiscal year and each subsequent fiscal 
year associated with a competitive sale of petroleum products, notify 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
actual value of the proceeds from the sale.
    (d)(1) New regional reserves.--The Secretary may not establish any 
new regional petroleum product reserve unless funding for the proposed 
regional petroleum product reserve is explicitly requested in advance 
in an annual budget submission and approved by the Congress in an 
appropriations Act.
            (2) The budget request or notification shall include--
                    (A) the justification for the new reserve;
                    (B) a cost estimate for the establishment, 
                operation, and maintenance of the reserve, including 
                funding sources;
                    (C) a detailed plan for operation of the reserve, 
                including the conditions upon which the products may be 
                released;
                    (D) the location of the reserve; and
                    (E) the estimate of the total inventory of the 
                reserve.
    Sec. 308. (a) Unobligated balances available from appropriations 
for fiscal years 2005 through 2010 are hereby permanently rescinded 
from the following accounts of the Department of Energy in the 
specified amounts:
            (1) ``Energy Programs--Energy Efficiency and Renewable 
        Energy'', $16,677,000.
            (2) ``Energy Programs--Electricity Delivery and Energy 
        Reliability'', $900,000.
            (3) ``Energy Programs--Nuclear Energy'', $1,665,000.
            (4) ``Energy Programs--Fossil Energy Research and 
        Development'', $12,064,000.
            (5) ``Energy Programs--Science'', $4,717,000.
            (6) ``Power Marketing Administrations--Construction, 
        Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area Power 
        Administration'', $4,832,000.
    (b) No amounts may be rescinded by this section from amounts that 
were designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 309. (a) Unobligated balances available from appropriations 
are hereby permanently rescinded from the following accounts of the 
Department of Energy in the specified amounts:
            (1) ``Atomic Energy Defense Activities--National Nuclear 
        Security Administration--Weapons Activities'', $65,135,000.
            (2) ``Atomic Energy Defense Activities--National Nuclear 
        Security Administration--Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation'', 
        $19,324,000.
            (3) ``Atomic Energy Defense Activities--National Nuclear 
        Security Administration--Naval Reactors'', $628,000.
    (b) No amounts may be rescinded by this section from amounts that 
were designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 310.  Of the amounts made available by this Act for ``National 
Nuclear Security Administration--Weapons Activities'', up to 
$50,000,000 may be reprogrammed within such account for Domestic 
Uranium Enrichment, subject to the notice requirements in section 301.

                          technical correction

    Sec. 311. (a) Contracts for Storage.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
Secretary is authorized, in this year and each subsequent fiscal year, 
to enter into contracts to store spent nuclear fuel and high-level 
radioactive waste, as applicable, to which the Secretary holds the 
title or has a contract to accept title, at any facility licensed by 
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for such storage.
    (b) Transfer of Title.--Delivery, and acceptance by the Secretary, 
of any spent nuclear fuel or high-level radioactive waste for storage 
under this section shall constitute a transfer of title to the 
Secretary of such spent fuel or waste.
    (c) Contract Modification.--The Secretary is authorized to enter 
into new contracts or modify existing contracts with any person who 
generates or holds title to high-level radioactive waste or spent 
nuclear fuel, of domestic origin for the acceptance of title, 
subsequent transportation, and storage of such high-level radioactive 
waste or spent nuclear fuel at a facility described under subsection 
(a).
    Sec. 312.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
provisions of 40 U.S.C. 11319 shall not apply to funds appropriated in 
this title to Federally Funded Research and Development Centers 
sponsored by the Department of Energy.

                                TITLE IV

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                    Appalachian Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the programs authorized by the 
Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, notwithstanding 40 U.S.C. 
14704, and for expenses necessary for the Federal Co-Chairman and the 
Alternate on the Appalachian Regional Commission, for payment of the 
Federal share of the administrative expenses of the Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $105,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board in carrying out activities authorized by the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, as amended by Public Law 100-456, section 1441, $29,150,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017.

                        Delta Regional Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Delta Regional Authority and to 
carry out its activities, as authorized by the Delta Regional Authority 
Act of 2000, notwithstanding sections 382C(b)(2), 382F(d), 382M, and 
382N of said Act, $25,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                           Denali Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Denali Commission including the 
purchase, construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment 
as necessary and other expenses, $11,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, notwithstanding the limitations contained in section 306(g) 
of the Denali Commission Act of 1998:  Provided, That funds shall be 
available for construction projects in an amount not to exceed 80 
percent of total project cost for distressed communities, as defined by 
section 307 of the Denali Commission Act of 1998 (division C, title 
III, Public Law 105-277), as amended by section 701 of appendix D, 
title VII, Public Law 106-113 (113 Stat. 1501A-280), and an amount not 
to exceed 50 percent for non-distressed communities.

                  Northern Border Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary for the Northern Border Regional Commission 
in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle V of title 40, United 
States Code, $7,500,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That such amounts shall be available for administrative expenses, 
notwithstanding section 15751(b) of title 40, United States Code.

                     Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Commission in carrying out the 
purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954, $990,000,000, including official representation expenses 
not to exceed $25,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That, of the amount appropriated herein, not more than $7,500,000 may 
be made available for salaries, travel, and other support costs for the 
Office of the Commission, to remain available until September 30, 2017, 
of which, notwithstanding section 201(a)(2)(c) of the Energy 
Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5841(a)(2)(c)), the use and 
expenditure shall only be approved by a majority vote of the 
Commission:  Provided further, That revenues from licensing fees, 
inspection services, and other services and collections estimated at 
$872,864,000 in fiscal year 2016 shall be retained and used for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, and shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the 
amount of revenues received during fiscal year 2016 so as to result in 
a final fiscal year 2016 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$117,136,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$12,136,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, 
That revenues from licensing fees, inspection services, and other 
services and collections estimated at $10,060,000 in fiscal year 2016 
shall be retained and be available until September 30, 2017, for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 
section 3302 of title 31, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount of revenues 
received during fiscal year 2016 so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2016 appropriation estimated at not more than $2,076,000:  Provided 
further, That, of the amounts appropriated under this heading, $958,000 
shall be for Inspector General services for the Defense Nuclear 
Facilities Safety Board, which shall not be available from fee 
revenues.

                  Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Nuclear Waste Technical Review 
Board, as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 5051, $3,600,000, 
to be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

    Sec. 401. (a) The amounts made available by this title for the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission may be reprogrammed for any program, 
project, or activity, and the Commission shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days prior to the 
use of any proposed reprogramming that would cause any program funding 
level to increase or decrease by more than $500,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, during the time period covered by this Act.
    (b)(1) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission may waive the notification 
requirement in (a) if compliance with such requirement would pose a 
substantial risk to human health, the environment, welfare, or national 
security.
    (2) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall notify the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of any waiver under 
paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, but not later than 3 days after 
the date of the activity to which a requirement or restriction would 
otherwise have applied. Such notice shall include an explanation of the 
substantial risk under paragraph (1) that permitted such waiver and 
shall provide a detailed report to the Committees of such waiver and 
changes to funding levels to programs, projects, or activities.
    (c) None of the funds provided for the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds that increases funds or personnel for any 
program, project, or activity for which funds are denied or restricted 
by this Act.
    (d) The Commission shall provide a monthly report to the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, which includes the 
following for each program, project, or activity, including any prior 
year appropriations--
            (1) total budget authority;
            (2) total unobligated balances; and
            (3) total unliquidated obligations.
    Sec. 402.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall comply with the 
July 5, 2011, version of Chapter VI of its Internal Commission 
Procedures when responding to Congressional requests for information.
    Sec. 403.  Public Law 105-277, division A, section 101(g) (title 
III, section 329(a), (b)) is amended by inserting, in subsection (b), 
after ``State law'' and before the period the following: ``or for the 
construction and repair of barge mooring points and barge landing sites 
to facilitate pumping fuel from fuel transport barges into bulk fuel 
storage tanks.''.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional action 
on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before Congress, 
other than to communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 
U.S.C. 1913.
    Sec. 502. (a) None of the funds made available in title III of this 
Act may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by or 
transfer authority provided in this Act or any other appropriations Act 
for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act, or any authority 
whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
Government may provide goods or services to another department, agency, 
or instrumentality.
    (b) None of the funds made available for any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States Government may be transferred to 
accounts funded in title III of this Act, except pursuant to a transfer 
made by or transfer authority provided in this Act or any other 
appropriations Act for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced 
in the report of the Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act, 
or any authority whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government may provide goods or services to another 
department, agency, or instrumentality.
    (c) The head of any relevant department or agency funded in this 
Act utilizing any transfer authority shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a semiannual report detailing 
the transfer authorities, except for any authority whereby a 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government 
may provide goods or services to another department, agency, or 
instrumentality, used in the previous 6 months and in the year-to-date. 
This report shall include the amounts transferred and the purposes for 
which they were transferred, and shall not replace or modify existing 
notification requirements for each authority.
    Sec. 503.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, carry out, modify, revise, or enforce 
Executive Order 13690 (entitled ``Establishing a Federal Flood Risk 
Management Standard and a Process for Further Soliciting and 
Considering Stakeholder Input'').
    This division may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016''.

   DIVISION C--DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION, AND HOUSING AND URBAN 
       DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Office of the Secretary

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, 
$110,738,000, of which not to exceed $2,734,000 shall be available for 
the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to exceed $1,025,000 shall 
be available for the immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary; not to 
exceed $20,109,000 shall be available for the Office of the General 
Counsel; not to exceed $10,141,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy; not to exceed 
$13,867,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Budget and Programs; not to exceed $2,546,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental 
Affairs; not to exceed $27,411,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Administration; not to exceed $2,029,000 
shall be available for the Office of Public Affairs; not to exceed 
$1,769,000 shall be available for the Office of the Executive 
Secretariat; not to exceed $1,434,000 shall be available for the Office 
of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization; not to exceed 
$10,793,000 shall be available for the Office of Intelligence, 
Security, and Emergency Response; and not to exceed $16,880,000 shall 
be available for the Office of the Chief Information Officer:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to 
transfer funds appropriated for any office of the Office of the 
Secretary to any other office of the Office of the Secretary:  Provided 
further, That no appropriation for any office shall be increased or 
decreased by more than 5 percent by all such transfers:  Provided 
further, That notice of any change in funding greater than 5 percent 
shall be submitted for approval to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That not to exceed $60,000 shall be 
for allocation within the Department for official reception and 
representation expenses as the Secretary may determine:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, excluding 
fees authorized in Public Law 107-71, there may be credited to this 
appropriation up to $2,500,000 in funds received in user fees:  
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for the position of Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs:  
Provided further, That not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit 
to Congress the final Comprehensive Truck Size and Weight Limits Study, 
as required by section 32801 of Public Law 112-141:  Provided further, 
That the amount herein appropriated for the Office of the Under 
Secretary for Transportation Policy shall be reduced by $100,000 for 
each day after 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act that 
such report has not been submitted to Congress:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall provide the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations quarterly written notification regarding the status of 
pending reports required to be submitted to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall provide in electronic form all signed reports required by 
Congress.

                        research and technology

    For necessary expenses related to the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Research and Technology, $13,000,000, of which $8,218,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That there 
may be credited to this appropriation, to be available until expended, 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training:  
Provided further, That any reference in law, regulation, judicial 
proceedings, or elsewhere to the Research and Innovative Technology 
Administration shall continue to be deemed to be a reference to the 
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology of the 
Department of Transportation.

                  national infrastructure investments

    For capital investments in surface transportation infrastructure, 
$500,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2019:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation shall distribute funds 
provided under this heading as discretionary grants to be awarded to a 
State, local government, transit agency, or a collaboration among such 
entities on a competitive basis for projects that will have a 
significant impact on the Nation, a metropolitan area, or a region:  
Provided further, That projects eligible for funding provided under 
this heading shall include, but not be limited to, highway or bridge 
projects eligible under title 23, United States Code; public 
transportation projects eligible under chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code; passenger and freight rail transportation projects; and 
port infrastructure investments (including inland port infrastructure): 
 Provided further, That the Secretary may use up to 20 percent of the 
funds made available under this heading for the purpose of paying the 
subsidy and administrative costs of projects eligible for Federal 
credit assistance under chapter 6 of title 23, United States Code, if 
the Secretary finds that such use of the funds would advance the 
purposes of this paragraph:  Provided further, That in distributing 
funds provided under this heading, the Secretary shall take such 
measures so as to ensure an equitable geographic distribution of funds, 
an appropriate balance in addressing the needs of urban and rural 
areas, and the investment in a variety of transportation modes:  
Provided further, That a grant funded under this heading shall be not 
less than $10,000,000 and not greater than $100,000,000:  Provided 
further, That not more than 25 percent of the funds made available 
under this heading may be awarded to projects in a single State:  
Provided further, That the Federal share of the costs for which an 
expenditure is made under this heading shall be, at the option of the 
recipient, up to 80 percent:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall give priority to projects that require a contribution of Federal 
funds in order to complete an overall financing package:  Provided 
further, That not less than 30 percent of the funds provided under this 
heading shall be for projects located in rural areas:  Provided 
further, That for projects located in rural areas, the minimum grant 
size shall be $1,000,000 and the Secretary may increase the Federal 
share of costs above 80 percent:  Provided further, That of the amount 
made available under this heading, the Secretary may use an amount not 
to exceed $25,000,000 for the planning, preparation or design of 
projects eligible for funding under this heading:  Provided further, 
That grants awarded under the previous proviso shall not be subject to 
a minimum grant size:  Provided further, That projects conducted using 
funds provided under this heading must comply with the requirements of 
subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall conduct a new competition to select 
the grants and credit assistance awarded under this heading:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary may retain up to $20,000,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading, and may transfer portions of those funds 
to the Administrators of the Federal Highway Administration, the 
Federal Transit Administration, the Federal Railroad Administration, 
and the Maritime Administration, to fund the award and oversight of 
grants and credit assistance made under the National Infrastructure 
Investments program.

                      financial management capital

    For necessary expenses for upgrading and enhancing the Department 
of Transportation's financial systems and re-engineering business 
processes, $5,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2017.

                       cyber security initiatives

    For necessary expenses for cyber security initiatives, including 
necessary upgrades to wide area network and information technology 
infrastructure, improvement of network perimeter controls and identity 
management, testing and assessment of information technology against 
business, security, and other requirements, implementation of Federal 
cyber security initiatives and information infrastructure enhancements, 
implementation of enhanced security controls on network devices, and 
enhancement of cyber security workforce training tools, $8,000,000, to 
remain available through September 30, 2017.

                         office of civil rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $9,678,000.

           transportation planning, research, and development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, to remain available until expended, $6,000,000.

        interagency infrastructure permitting improvement center

    For necessary expenses to establish an Interagency Infrastructure 
Permitting Improvement Center (IIPIC) that will implement reforms to 
improve interagency coordination and the expediting of projects related 
to the permitting and environmental review of major transportation 
infrastructure projects including one-time expenses to develop and 
deploy information technology tools to track project schedules and 
metrics and improve the transparency and accountability of the 
permitting process, $4,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That there may be transferred to this appropriation, to 
remain available until expended, amounts from other Federal agencies 
for expenses incurred under this heading for activities not related to 
transportation infrastructure:  Provided further, That the tools and 
analysis developed by the IIPIC shall be available to other Federal 
agencies for the permitting and review of major infrastructure projects 
not related to transportation only to the extent that other Federal 
agencies provide funding to the Department as provided for under the 
previous proviso.

                          working capital fund

    For necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of 
the Working Capital Fund, not to exceed $190,039,000 shall be paid from 
appropriations made available to the Department of Transportation:  
Provided, That such services shall be provided on a competitive basis 
to entities within the Department of Transportation:  Provided further, 
That the above limitation on operating expenses shall not apply to non-
DOT entities:  Provided further, That no funds appropriated in this Act 
to an agency of the Department shall be transferred to the Working 
Capital Fund without majority approval of the Working Capital Fund 
Steering Committee and approval of the Secretary:  Provided further, 
That no assessments may be levied against any program, budget activity, 
subactivity or project funded by this Act unless notice of such 
assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such 
Committees.

               minority business resource center program

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $336,000, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. 332:  Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That these funds are available 
to subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be 
guaranteed, not to exceed $18,367,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
guaranteed loan program, $597,000.

                       minority business outreach

    For necessary expenses of Minority Business Resource Center 
outreach activities, $3,084,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2017:  Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these funds 
may be used for business opportunities related to any mode of 
transportation.

                        payments to air carriers

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    In addition to funds made available from any other source to carry 
out the essential air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731 through 
41742, $175,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That in 
determining between or among carriers competing to provide service to a 
community, the Secretary may consider the relative subsidy requirements 
of the carriers:  Provided further, That basic essential air service 
minimum requirements shall not include the 15-passenger capacity 
requirement under subsection 41732(b)(3) of title 49, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act or any 
other Act shall be used to enter into a new contract with a community 
located less than 40 miles from the nearest small hub airport before 
the Secretary has negotiated with the community over a local cost 
share:  Provided further, That amounts authorized to be distributed for 
the essential air service program under subsection 41742(b) of title 
49, United States Code, shall be made available immediately from 
amounts otherwise provided to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration:  Provided further, That the Administrator may reimburse 
such amounts from fees credited to the account established under 
section 45303 of title 49, United States Code.

  administrative provisions--office of the secretary of transportation

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Department of Transportation may be obligated for the Office of the 
Secretary of Transportation to approve assessments or reimbursable 
agreements pertaining to funds appropriated to the modal 
administrations in this Act, except for activities underway on the date 
of enactment of this Act, unless such assessments or agreements have 
completed the normal reprogramming process for Congressional 
notification.
    Sec. 102.  The Secretary or his or her designee may engage in 
activities with States and State legislators to consider proposals 
related to the reduction of motorcycle fatalities.
    Sec. 103.  Notwithstanding section 3324 of title 31, United States 
Code, in addition to authority provided by section 327 of title 49, 
United States Code, the Department's Working Capital Fund is hereby 
authorized to provide payments in advance to vendors that are necessary 
to carry out the Federal transit pass transportation fringe benefit 
program under Executive Order 13150 and section 3049 of Public Law 109-
59:  Provided, That the Department shall include adequate safeguards in 
the contract with the vendors to ensure timely and high-quality 
performance under the contract.
    Sec. 104.  The Secretary shall post on the Web site of the 
Department of Transportation a schedule of all meetings of the Credit 
Council, including the agenda for each meeting, and require the Credit 
Council to record the decisions and actions of each meeting.
    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or made available under this Act shall be used to 
finalize or implement sections 256.1 through 256.5 and 399.80 of the 
Department of Transportation's proposed rulemaking, as published in the 
Federal Register on Friday, May 23, 2014 (79 FR 29969), relating to 
Transparency of Airline Ancillary Fees and Other Consumer Protection 
Issues.

                    Federal Aviation Administration

                               operations

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the 
public, lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only, in addition to amounts made available by Public Law 112-95, 
$9,897,818,000 of which $8,180,000,000 shall be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund, of which not to exceed $7,505,293,000 
shall be available for air traffic organization activities; not to 
exceed $1,258,411,000 shall be available for aviation safety 
activities; not to exceed $17,425,000 shall be available for commercial 
space transportation activities; not to exceed $748,969,000 shall be 
available for finance and management activities; not to exceed 
$60,089,000 shall be available for NextGen and operations planning 
activities; not to exceed $100,880,000 shall be available for security 
and hazardous materials safety; and not to exceed $206,751,000 shall be 
available for staff offices:  Provided, That not to exceed 2 percent of 
any budget activity, except for aviation safety budget activity, may be 
transferred to any budget activity under this heading:  Provided 
further, That no transfer may increase or decrease any appropriation by 
more than 2 percent:  Provided further, That any transfer in excess of 
2 percent shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
405 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or 
expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section:  Provided further, That not later than March 31 of each fiscal 
year hereafter, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration shall transmit to Congress an annual update to the 
report submitted to Congress in December 2004 pursuant to section 221 
of Public Law 108-176:  Provided further, That the amount herein 
appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000 for each day after March 31 
that such report has not been submitted to the Congress:  Provided 
further, That not later than March 31 of each fiscal year hereafter, 
the Administrator shall transmit to Congress a companion report that 
describes a comprehensive strategy for staffing, hiring, and training 
flight standards and aircraft certification staff in a format similar 
to the one utilized for the controller staffing plan, including stated 
attrition estimates and numerical hiring goals by fiscal year:  
Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated shall be reduced 
by $100,000 per day for each day after March 31 that such report has 
not been submitted to Congress:  Provided further, That funds may be 
used to enter into a grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting 
organization to assist in the development of aviation safety standards: 
 Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be 
available for new applicants for the second career training program:  
Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available 
for the Federal Aviation Administration to finalize or implement any 
regulation that would promulgate new aviation user fees not 
specifically authorized by law after the date of the enactment of this 
Act:  Provided further, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation, as offsetting collections, funds received from States, 
counties, municipalities, foreign authorities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred in the provision 
of agency services, including receipts for the maintenance and 
operation of air navigation facilities, and for issuance, renewal or 
modification of certificates, including airman, aircraft, and repair 
station certificates, or for tests related thereto, or for processing 
major repair or alteration forms:  Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $154,400,000 shall be 
for the contract tower program, including the contract tower cost share 
program:  Provided further, That none of the funds in this Act for 
aeronautical charting and cartography are available for activities 
conducted by, or coordinated through, the Working Capital Fund.

                        facilities and equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
acquisition, establishment, technical support services, improvement by 
contract or purchase, and hire of national airspace systems and 
experimental facilities and equipment, as authorized under part A of 
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including initial 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering and 
service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under 
this heading, including aircraft for aviation regulation and 
certification; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$2,600,000,000, of which $467,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2016, and $2,133,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
the establishment, improvement, and modernization of national airspace 
systems:  Provided further, That no later than March 31, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall transmit to the Congress an investment plan for 
the Federal Aviation Administration which includes funding for each 
budget line item for fiscal years 2017 through 2021, with total funding 
for each year of the plan constrained to the funding targets for those 
years as estimated and approved by the Office of Management and Budget: 
 Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated shall be reduced 
by $100,000 per day for each day after March 31 that such report has 
not been submitted to Congress.

                 research, engineering, and development

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle 
VII of title 49, United States Code, including construction of 
experimental facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant, $163,325,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund and to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections, 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, which shall be available for expenses 
incurred for research, engineering, and development.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

                         (including rescission)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and 
programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter 
I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law 
authorizing such obligations; for procurement, installation, and 
commissioning of runway incursion prevention devices and systems at 
airports of such title; for grants authorized under section 41743 of 
title 49, United States Code; and for inspection activities and 
administration of airport safety programs, including those related to 
airport operating certificates under section 44706 of title 49, United 
States Code, $3,600,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended:  Provided, That none 
of the funds under this heading shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$3,350,000,000 in fiscal year 2016, notwithstanding section 47117(g) of 
title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
under this heading shall be available for the replacement of baggage 
conveyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal baggage areas, or other 
airport improvements that are necessary to install bulk explosive 
detection systems:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 
47109(a) of title 49, United States Code, the Government's share of 
allowable project costs under paragraph (2) for subgrants or paragraph 
(3) of that section shall be 95 percent for a project at other than a 
large or medium hub airport that is a successive phase of a multi-
phased construction project for which the project sponsor received a 
grant in fiscal year 2011 for the construction project:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, of funds 
limited under this heading, not more than $107,100,000 shall be 
obligated for administration, not less than $15,000,000 shall be 
available for the Airport Cooperative Research Program, not less than 
$31,000,000 shall be available for Airport Technology Research, and 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available and 
transferred to ``Office of the Secretary, Salaries and Expenses'' to 
carry out the Small Community Air Service Development Program:  
Provided further, That in addition to airports eligible under section 
41743 of title 49, such program may include the participation of an 
airport that serves a community or consortium that is not larger than a 
small hub airport, according to FAA hub classifications effective at 
the time the Office of the Secretary issues a request for proposals.

                              (rescission)

    Of the amounts authorized for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2016, under section 48112 of title 49, United States Code, all 
unobligated balances are permanently rescinded.

       administrative provisions--federal aviation administration

    Sec. 110.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate 
in excess of 600 technical staff-years under the federally funded 
research and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 2016.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pursue or 
adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport sponsors to provide 
to the Federal Aviation Administration without cost building 
construction, maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in airport 
sponsor-owned buildings for services relating to air traffic control, 
air navigation, or weather reporting:  Provided, That the prohibition 
of funds in this section does not apply to negotiations between the 
agency and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-market'' 
rates for these items or to grant assurances that require airport 
sponsors to provide land without cost to the FAA for air traffic 
control facilities.
    Sec. 112.  The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
may reimburse amounts made available to satisfy 49 U.S.C. 41742(a)(1) 
from fees credited under 49 U.S.C. 45303 and any amount remaining in 
such account at the close of that fiscal year may be made available to 
satisfy section 41742(a)(1) for the subsequent fiscal year.
    Sec. 113.  Amounts collected under section 40113(e) of title 49, 
United States Code, shall be credited to the appropriation current at 
the time of collection, to be merged with and available for the same 
purposes of such appropriation.
    Sec. 114.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
paying premium pay under subsection 5546(a) of title 5, United States 
Code, to any Federal Aviation Administration employee unless such 
employee actually performed work during the time corresponding to such 
premium pay.
    Sec. 115.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for an employee of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
purchase a store gift card or gift certificate through use of a 
Government-issued credit card.
    Sec. 116.  The Secretary shall apportion to the sponsor of an 
airport that received scheduled or unscheduled air service from a large 
certified air carrier (as defined in part 241 of title 14 Code of 
Federal Regulations, or such other regulations as may be issued by the 
Secretary under the authority of section 41709) an amount equal to the 
minimum apportionment specified in 49 U.S.C. 47114(c), if the Secretary 
determines that airport had more than 10,000 passenger boardings in the 
preceding calendar year, based on data submitted to the Secretary under 
part 241 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 117.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for retention bonuses for an employee of the Federal Aviation 
Administration without the prior written approval of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration of the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 118.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available under this Act or any prior Act may be used to 
implement or to continue to implement any limitation on the ability of 
any owner or operator of a private aircraft to obtain, upon a request 
to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, a blocking 
of that owner's or operator's aircraft registration number from any 
display of the Federal Aviation Administration's Aircraft Situational 
Display to Industry data that is made available to the public, except 
data made available to a Government agency, for the noncommercial 
flights of that owner or operator.
    Sec. 119.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 9 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Federal Aviation Administration.
    Sec. 119A.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used to increase fees pursuant to section 44721 of title 49, United 
States Code, until the FAA provides to the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations a report that justifies all fees related to 
aeronautical navigation products and explains how such fees are 
consistent with Executive Order 13642.
    Sec. 119B.  None of the funds appropriated or limited by this Act 
may be used to change weight restrictions or prior permission rules at 
Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jersey.
    Sec. 119C.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to close a 
regional operations center of the Federal Aviation Administration or 
reduce its services unless the Administrator notifies the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 90 full business days 
in advance.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

                          (highway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed $429,348,000, together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration, shall be 
obligated for necessary expenses for administration and operation of 
the Federal Highway Administration or transferred to the Appalachian 
Regional Commission in accordance with section 104 of title 23, United 
States Code.

                          federal-aid highways

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Funds available for the implementation or execution of Federal-aid 
highways and highway safety construction programs authorized under 
titles 23 and 49, United States Code, and the provisions of Public Law 
112-141 shall not exceed total obligations of $40,256,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2016:  Provided, That the Secretary may collect and spend 
fees, as authorized by title 23, United States Code, to cover the costs 
of services of expert firms, including counsel, in the field of 
municipal and project finance to assist in the underwriting and 
servicing of Federal credit instruments and all or a portion of the 
costs to the Federal Government of servicing such credit instruments:  
Provided further, That such fees are available until expended to pay 
for such costs:  Provided further, That such amounts are in addition to 
administrative expenses that are also available for such purpose, and 
are not subject to any obligation limitation or the limitation on 
administrative expenses under section 608 of title 23, United States 
Code.

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For the payment of obligations incurred in carrying out Federal-aid 
highways and highway safety construction programs authorized under 
title 23, United States Code, $40,995,000,000 derived from the Highway 
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), to remain available 
until expended.

       administrative provisions--federal highway administration

    Sec. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2016, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid highways--
                    (A) amounts authorized for administrative expenses 
                and programs by section 104(a) of title 23, United 
                States Code; and
                    (B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of 
                Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts--
                    (A) made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
                (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid 
                highways and highway safety construction programs for 
                previous fiscal years the funds for which are allocated 
                by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Secretary under 
                section 202 or 204 of title 23, United States Code); 
                and
                    (B) for which obligation limitation was provided in 
                a previous fiscal year;
            (3) determine the proportion that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                highways, less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for the Federal-aid highways and highway 
                safety construction programs (other than sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for provisions of law 
                described in paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection 
                (b) and sums authorized to be appropriated for section 
                119 of title 23, United States Code, equal to the 
                amount referred to in subsection (b)(12) for such 
                fiscal year), less the aggregate of the amounts not 
                distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this 
                subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2), for each of the programs (other than 
        programs to which paragraph (1) applies) that are allocated by 
        the Secretary under the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st 
        Century Act and title 23, United States Code, or apportioned by 
        the Secretary under sections 202 or 204 of that title, by 
        multiplying--
                    (A) the proportion determined under paragraph (3); 
                by
                    (B) the amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
                each such program for such fiscal year; and
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highways and highway safety 
        construction programs that are apportioned by the Secretary 
        under title 23, United States Code (other than the amounts 
        apportioned for the National Highway Performance Program in 
        section 119 of title 23, United States Code, that are exempt 
        from the limitation under subsection (b)(12) and the amounts 
        apportioned under sections 202 and 204 of that title) in the 
        proportion that--
                    (A) amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
                programs that are apportioned under title 23, United 
                States Code, to each State for such fiscal year; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the amounts authorized to be 
                appropriated for the programs that are apportioned 
                under title 23, United States Code, to all States for 
                such fiscal year.
    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid highways shall not apply to obligations 
under or for--
            (1) section 125 of title 23, United States Code;
            (2) section 147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance 
        Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144 note; 92 Stat. 2714);
            (3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981 (95 
        Stat. 1701);
            (4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of the Surface 
        Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
            (5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of the Surface 
        Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 
        (101 Stat. 198);
            (6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface 
        Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
            (7) section 157 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect on June 8, 1998);
            (8) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect for fiscal years 1998 through 2004, but only in an 
        amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
            (9) Federal-aid highways programs for which obligation 
        authority was made available under the Transportation Equity 
        Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subsequent Acts for 
        multiple years or to remain available until expended, but only 
        to the extent that the obligation authority has not lapsed or 
        been used;
            (10) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect for fiscal years 2005 through 2012, but only in an 
        amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
            (11) section 1603 of SAFETEA-LU (23 U.S.C. 118 note; 119 
        Stat. 1248), to the extent that funds obligated in accordance 
        with that section were not subject to a limitation on 
        obligations at the time at which the funds were initially made 
        available for obligation; and
            (12) section 119 of title 23, United States Code (but, for 
        each of fiscal years 2013 through 2016, only in an amount equal 
        to $639,000,000).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall, after August 1 of such fiscal 
year--
            (1) revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made 
        available under subsection (a) if an amount distributed cannot 
        be obligated during that fiscal year; and
            (2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those States able to 
        obligate amounts in addition to those previously distributed 
        during that fiscal year, giving priority to those States having 
        large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
        144 (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
        Public Law 112-141) and 104 of title 23, United States Code.
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways shall apply to 
        contract authority for transportation research programs carried 
        out under--
                    (A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States Code; and
                    (B) division E of the Moving Ahead for Progress in 
                the 21st Century Act.
            (2) Exception.--Obligation authority made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal 
                years; and
                    (B) be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
                imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highways and 
                highway safety construction programs for future fiscal 
                years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        distribution of obligation limitation under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds (excluding 
        funds authorized for the program under section 202 of title 23, 
        United States Code) that--
                    (A) are authorized to be appropriated for such 
                fiscal year for Federal-aid highways programs; and
                    (B) the Secretary determines will not be allocated 
                to the States (or will not be apportioned to the States 
                under section 204 of title 23, United States Code), and 
                will not be available for obligation, for such fiscal 
                year because of the imposition of any obligation 
                limitation for such fiscal year.
            (2) Ratio.--Funds shall be distributed under paragraph (1) 
        in the same proportion as the distribution of obligation 
        authority under subsection (a)(5).
            (3) Availability.--Funds distributed to each State under 
        paragraph (1) shall be available for any purpose described in 
        section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to chapter 63 of title 49, United 
States Code, may be credited to the Federal-aid highways account for 
the purpose of reimbursing the Bureau for such expenses:  Provided, 
That such funds shall be subject to the obligation limitation for 
Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction programs.
    Sec. 122.  Not less than 15 days prior to waiving, under his or her 
statutory authority, any Buy America requirement for Federal-aid 
highways projects, the Secretary of Transportation shall make an 
informal public notice and comment opportunity on the intent to issue 
such waiver and the reasons therefor:  Provided, That the Secretary 
shall provide an annual report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on any waivers granted under the Buy America 
requirements.
    Sec. 123.  None of the funds in this Act to the Department of 
Transportation may be used to provide credit assistance unless not less 
than 3 days before any application approval to provide credit 
assistance under sections 603 and 604 of title 23, United States Code, 
the Secretary of Transportation provides notification in writing to the 
following committees: the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations; the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives:  Provided, That such notification shall include, but 
not be limited to, the name of the project sponsor; a description of 
the project; whether credit assistance will be provided as a direct 
loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit; and the amount of credit 
assistance.
    Sec. 124.  From the unobligated balances of funds apportioned among 
the States prior to October 1, 2012, under sections 104(b) of title 23, 
United States Code (as in effect on the day before the date of 
enactment of Public Law 112-141), the amount of $22,348,000 shall be 
made available in fiscal year 2016 for the administrative expenses of 
the Federal Highway Administration:  Provided, That this provision 
shall not apply to funds distributed in accordance with section 
104(b)(5) of title 23, United States Code (as in effect on the day 
before the date of enactment of Public Law 112-141); section 133(d)(1) 
of such title (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
Public Law 109-59); and the first sentence of section 133(d)(3)(A) of 
such title (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
Public Law 112-141):  Provided further, That such amount shall be 
derived on a proportional basis from the unobligated balances of 
apportioned funds to which this provision applies:  Provided further, 
That the amount made available by this provision in fiscal year 2016 
for the administrative expenses of the Federal Highway Administration 
shall be in addition to the amount made available in fiscal year 2016 
for such purposes under section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 125.  Section 127 of title 23, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(m) Operation of Certain Specialized Hauling Vehicles on Certain 
Texas Highways.--
            ``(1) In general.--If any segment of United States Route 
        59, United States Route 77, United States Route 281, United 
        States Route 84, or routes otherwise made eligible for 
        designation as Interstate Route 69, is designated as Interstate 
        Route 69, a vehicle that could operate legally on that segment 
        before the date of such designation may continue to operate on 
        that segment, without regard to any requirement under 
        subsection (a).
            ``(2) Description of highway segments.--The highway 
        segments referred to in paragraph (1) are any segment of United 
        States Route 59, United States Route 77, United States Route 
        281, United States Route 84, and routes otherwise made eligible 
        for designation as Interstate Route 69 in Texas.
    ``(n) Operation of Certain Specialized Vehicles on Certain Highways 
in the State of Arkansas.--If any segment of United States Route 63 
between the exits for Arkansas Highway 14 and Arkansas Highway 75 is 
designated as part of the Interstate System--
            ``(1) a vehicle that could legally operate on the segment 
        before the date of such designation at the posted speed limit 
        may continue to operate on that segment; and
            ``(2) a vehicle that can only travel slower than the posted 
        speed limit on the segment and could otherwise legally operate 
        on the segment before the date of such designation may continue 
        to operate on that segment during daylight hours.''.
    Sec. 126. (a) A State or territory, as defined in section 165 of 
title 23, United States Code, may use for any project eligible under 
section 133(b) of title 23 or section 165 of title 23 and located 
within the boundary of the State or territory any earmarked amount, and 
any associated obligation limitation, provided that the Department of 
Transportation for the State or territory for which the earmarked 
amount was originally designated or directed notifies the Secretary of 
Transportation of its intent to use its authority under this section 
and submits a quarterly report to the Secretary identifying the 
projects to which the funding would be applied. Notwithstanding the 
original period of availability of funds to be obligated under this 
section, such funds and associated obligation limitation shall remain 
available for obligation for a period of 3 fiscal years after the 
fiscal year in which the Secretary of Transportation is notified. The 
Federal share of the cost of a project carried out with funds made 
available under this section shall be the same as associated with the 
earmark.
    (b) In this section, the term ``earmarked amount'' means--
            (1) congressionally directed spending, as defined in rule 
        XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate, identified in a prior 
        law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
        authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
        fiscal years prior to the fiscal year in which this Act becomes 
        effective, and administered by the Federal Highway 
        Administration; or
            (2) a congressional earmark, as defined in rule XXI of the 
        Rules of the House of Representatives identified in a prior 
        law, report, or joint explanatory statement, which was 
        authorized to be appropriated or appropriated more than 10 
        fiscal years prior to the fiscal year in which this Act becomes 
        effective, and administered by the Federal Highway 
        Administration.
    (c) The authority under subsection (a) may be exercised only for 
those projects or activities that have obligated less than 10 percent 
of the amount made available for obligation as of the effective date of 
this Act, and shall be applied to projects within the same general 
geographic area within 50 miles for which the funding was designated, 
except that a State or territory may apply such authority to unexpended 
balances of funds from projects or activities the State or territory 
certifies have been closed and for which payments have been made under 
a final voucher.
    (d) The Secretary shall submit consolidated reports of the 
information provided by the States and territories each quarter to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 127. (a) In General.--Section 31112(c)(5) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Nebraska may'' and inserting ``Nebraska 
        and Kansas may''; and
            (2) by striking ``the State of Nebraska'' and inserting 
        ``the relevant state''.
    (b) Conforming and Technical Amendments.--Section 31112(c) of such 
title is amended--
            (1) by striking the subsection designation and heading and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(c) Special Rules for Wyoming, Ohio, Alaska, Iowa, Nebraska, and 
Kansas.--'';
            (2) by striking ``; and'' at the end of paragraph (3) and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and 
        inserting ``; and''.

              Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

              motor carrier safety operations and programs

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the implementation, 
execution and administration of motor carrier safety operations and 
programs pursuant to section 31104(i) of title 49, United States Code, 
and sections 4127 and 4134 of Public Law 109-59, as amended by Public 
Law 112-141, $259,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account), together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety 
Administration, the sum of which shall remain available until expended: 
 Provided, That funds available for implementation, execution or 
administration of motor carrier safety operations and programs 
authorized under title 49, United States Code, shall not exceed total 
obligations of $259,000,000 for ``Motor Carrier Safety Operations and 
Programs'' for fiscal year 2016, of which $9,000,000, to remain 
available for obligation until September 30, 2018, is for the research 
and technology program, and of which $34,545,000, to remain available 
for obligation until September 30, 2018, is for information management: 
 Provided further, That $1,000,000 shall be made available for 
commercial motor vehicle operator grants to carry out section 4134 of 
Public Law 109-59, as amended by Public Law 112-141.

                      motor carrier safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out sections 31102, 
31104(a), 31106, 31107, 31109, 31309, 31313 of title 49, United States 
Code, and sections 4126 and 4128 of Public Law 109-59, as amended by 
Public Law 112-141, $313,000,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) and to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That funds available for the implementation 
or execution of motor carrier safety programs shall not exceed total 
obligations of $313,000,000 in fiscal year 2016 for ``Motor Carrier 
Safety Grants''; of which $218,000,000 shall be available for the motor 
carrier safety assistance program, $30,000,000 shall be available for 
commercial driver's license program improvement grants, $32,000,000 
shall be available for border enforcement grants, $5,000,000 shall be 
available for performance and registration information system 
management grants, $25,000,000 shall be available for the commercial 
vehicle information systems and networks deployment program, and 
$3,000,000 shall be available for safety data improvement grants:  
Provided further, That, of the funds made available herein for the 
motor carrier safety assistance program, $32,000,000 shall be available 
for audits of new entrant motor carriers.

 administrative provisions--federal motor carrier safety administration

    Sec. 130. (a) Funds appropriated or limited in this Act shall be 
subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in section 350 of Public 
Law 107-87 and section 6901 of Public Law 110-28.
    (b) Section 350(d) of the Department of Transportation and Related 
Agencies Appropriation Act, 2002 (Public Law 107-87) is hereby 
repealed.
    Sec. 131.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration shall 
send notice of 49 CFR section 385.308 violations by certified mail, 
registered mail, or another manner of delivery which records the 
receipt of the notice by the persons responsible for the violations.
    Sec. 132.  None of the funds limited or otherwise made available 
under this Act, or any other Act, hereafter, shall be used by the 
Secretary to enforce any regulation prohibiting a State from issuing a 
commercial learner's permit to individuals under the age of eighteen if 
the State had a law authorizing the issuance of commercial learner's 
permits to individuals under eighteen years of age as of May 9, 2011.
    Sec. 133.  None of the funds limited or otherwise made available 
under the heading ``Motor Carrier Safety Operations and Programs'' may 
be used to deny an application to renew a Hazardous Materials Safety 
Program permit for a motor carrier based on that carrier's Hazardous 
Materials Out-of-Service rate, unless the carrier has the opportunity 
to submit a written description of corrective actions taken, and other 
documentation the carrier wishes the Secretary to consider, including 
submitting a corrective action plan, and the Secretary determines the 
actions or plan is insufficient to address the safety concerns that 
resulted in that Hazardous Materials Out-of-Service rate.
    Sec. 134.  Funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
Act or any other Act shall be used hereafter to enforce sections 
395.3(c) and 395.3(d) of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, only if 
the final report issued by the Secretary required by section 133 of 
division K of Public Law 113-235 finds that the July 1, 2013 restart 
provisions resulted in statistically significant net safety benefits 
and the Inspector General certifies that the final report meets the 
statutory requirements of Public Law 113-235.
    Sec. 135.  Funds made available by this Act or any other Act may be 
used to develop, issue, or implement any regulation that increases 
levels of minimum financial responsibility for transporting passengers 
or property as in effect on January 1, 2014, under regulations issued 
pursuant to sections 31138 and 31139 of title 49, United States Code, 
only 60 days after the Secretary provides a report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Senate Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation on the impact of raising the 
minimum financial responsibility for transporting passengers or 
property. The report shall include an assessment of catastrophic 
crashes in which damages exceeded the insurance limits, the impact of 
higher insurance premiums on carriers, and the capacity of the 
insurance industry to underwrite increases in current minimum financial 
responsibility limits.
    Sec. 136.  Section 13506(a) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended:
            (1) in subsection (14) by striking ``or'';
            (2) in subsection (15) by striking ``.'' and inserting ``; 
        or''; and
            (3) by inserting at the end, ``(16) the transportation of 
        passengers by motor vehicles operated by youth or family camps 
        that provide overnight accommodations and recreational or 
        educational activities at fixed locations.''.
    Sec. 137. (a) Section 31111(b)(1)(A) of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``or of less than 28 feet on a semitrailer 
or trailer operating in a truck tractor semitrailer-trailer 
combination,'' and inserting ``or, notwithstanding section 31112, of 
less than 33 feet on a semitrailer or trailer operating in a truck 
tractor semitrailer-trailer combination,''.
    (b) Section 31111(f) of title 49, United States Code, the term 
``chief executive officer of a State'' shall include ``chief executive 
officer of a State Department of Transportation''.
    (c) The Secretary of Transportation is directed to conduct a study 
comparing crash data between 28 foot and 33 foot semitrailers or 
trailers operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer 
configuration. The Secretary shall submit its study to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations no later than three years after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                        operations and research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
with respect to traffic and highway safety authorized under chapter 301 
and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, 
$130,500,000, of which $20,000,000 shall remain available through 
September 30, 2017.

                        operations and research

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 403, and chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code, 
$118,500,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
Mass Transit Account) and to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That none of the funds under this heading shall be available 
for the planning or execution of programs the total obligations for 
which, in fiscal year 2016, are in excess of $118,500,000, of which 
$113,500,000 shall be for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403 and 
$5,000,000 shall be for the National Driver Register authorized under 
chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
within the $118,500,000 obligation limitation for operations and 
research, $20,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2017, 
and shall be in addition to the amount of any limitation imposed on 
obligations for future years.

            highway traffic safety grants and other purposes

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 402, 403, and 405, section 2009 of Public Law 109-59, as 
amended by Public Law 112-141, section 31101(a)(6) of Public Law 112-
141, chapter 301 of title 49, United States Code, and part C of 
subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, to remain available until 
expended, $575,500,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account):  Provided, That none of the 
funds in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2016, are in 
excess of $575,500,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 
403, and 405, section 2009 of Public Law 109-59, as amended by Public 
Law 112-141, section 31101(a)(6) of Public Law 112-141, chapter 301 of 
title 49, United States Code, and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, 
United States Code, of which $235,000,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety 
Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 402; $272,000,000 shall be for ``National 
Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 405; $29,000,000 shall be 
for ``High Visibility Enforcement Program'' under section 2009 of 
Public Law 109-59, as amended by Public Law 112-141; $25,500,000 shall 
be for ``Administrative Expenses'' under section 31101(a)(6) of Public 
Law 112-141:  Provided further, That none of these funds shall be used 
for construction, rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office 
furnishings and fixtures for State, local or private buildings or 
structures:  Provided further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds 
made available for ``National Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 
U.S.C. 405 for ``Impaired Driving Countermeasures'' (as described in 
subsection (d) of that section) shall be available for technical 
assistance to the States:  Provided further, That with respect to the 
``Transfers'' provision under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(1)(G), any amounts 
transferred to increase the amounts made available under section 402 
shall include the obligation authority for such amounts:  Provided 
further, That the Administrator shall notify the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations of any exercise of the authority granted 
under the previous proviso or under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(1)(G) within 5 
days:  Provided further, That $10,000,000 of the total obligation 
limitation made available shall be applied toward unobligated balances 
of contract authority under the program for which funds were authorized 
in section 2005 of Public Law 109-59, as amended, and shall be used for 
programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403:  Provided further, That 
$4,000,000 of the total obligation limitation made available shall be 
applied toward unobligated balances of contract authority under the 
program for which funds were authorized in section 2005 of Public Law 
109-59, as amended, and shall be used to cover the expenses necessary 
to discharge the functions of the Secretary, with respect to traffic 
and highway safety under chapter 301 of title 49, United States Code, 
and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That the additional $14,000,000 made available for obligation 
from unobligated balances of contract authority under section 2005 of 
Public Law 109-59, as amended, shall be available in the same manner as 
though such funds were apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, United 
States Code, except that the Federal share payable on account of any 
program, project, or activity carried out with such funds made 
available under this heading shall be 100 percent and such funds shall 
remain available for obligation until expended.

      administrative provisions--national highway traffic safety 
                             administration

    Sec. 140.  An additional $130,000 shall be made available to the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, out of the amount 
limited for section 402 of title 23, United States Code, to pay for 
travel and related expenses for State management reviews and to pay for 
core competency development training and related expenses for highway 
safety staff.
    Sec. 141.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration set in this Act shall 
not apply to obligations for which obligation authority was made 
available in previous public laws but only to the extent that the 
obligation authority has not lapsed or been used.
    Sec. 142.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to implement 
section 404 of title 23, United States Code.

                    Federal Railroad Administration

                         safety and operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $199,000,000, of which $15,900,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                   railroad research and development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$39,100,000, to remain available until expended.

       railroad rehabilitation and improvement financing program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue direct loans 
and loan guarantees pursuant to sections 501 through 504 of the 
Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 
94-210), as amended, such authority to exist as long as any such direct 
loan or loan guarantee is outstanding:  Provided, That pursuant to 
section 502 of such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan 
guarantee commitments shall be made using Federal funds for the credit 
risk premium during fiscal year 2016.

                         railroad safety grants

    For necessary expenses related to railroad safety grants, 
$50,000,000, of which not to exceed $25,000,000 shall be available to 
carry out 49 U.S.C. 20167; not to exceed $15,000,000 shall be made 
available to carry out 49 U.S.C. 20158; and not to exceed $10,000,000 
shall be made available for projects as defined in section 22501 of 
title 49, United States Code, to remain available until expended.

    operating grants to the national railroad passenger corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make quarterly grants 
to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, in amounts based on the 
Secretary's assessment of the Corporation's seasonal cash flow 
requirements, for the operation of intercity passenger rail, as 
authorized by section 101 of the Passenger Rail Investment and 
Improvement Act of 2008 (division B of Public Law 110-432), 
$288,500,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
amounts available under this paragraph shall be available for the 
Secretary to approve funding to cover operating losses for the 
Corporation only after receiving and reviewing a grant request for each 
specific train route:  Provided further, That each such grant request 
shall be accompanied by a detailed financial analysis, revenue 
projection, and capital expenditure projection justifying the Federal 
support to the Secretary's satisfaction:  Provided further, That not 
later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the Corporation shall 
transmit, in electronic format, to the Secretary and the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations the annual budget, business plan, 
the 5-Year Financial Plan for fiscal year 2016 required under section 
204 of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 and 
the comprehensive fleet plan for all Amtrak rolling stock:  Provided 
further, That the budget, business plan and the 5-Year Financial Plan 
shall include annual information on the maintenance, refurbishment, 
replacement, and expansion for all Amtrak rolling stock consistent with 
the comprehensive fleet plan:  Provided further, That the Corporation 
shall provide monthly performance reports in an electronic format which 
shall describe the work completed to date, any changes to the business 
plan, and the reasons for such changes as well as progress against the 
milestones and target dates of the 2012 performance improvement plan:  
Provided further, That the Corporation's budget, business plan, 5-Year 
Financial Plan, semiannual reports, monthly reports, comprehensive 
fleet plan and all supplemental reports or plans comply with 
requirements in Public Law 112-55:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds provided in this Act may be used to support any route on which 
Amtrak offers a discounted fare of more than 50 percent off the normal 
peak fare:  Provided further, That the preceding proviso does not apply 
to routes where the operating loss as a result of the discount is 
covered by a State and the State participates in the setting of fares.

  capital and debt service grants to the national railroad passenger 
                              corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for capital investments as 
authorized by sections 101(c), 102, and 219(b) of the Passenger Rail 
Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (division B of Public Law 110-
432), $1,101,500,000, to remain available until expended, of which not 
to exceed $160,200,000 shall be for debt service obligations as 
authorized by section 102 of such Act:  Provided, That of the amounts 
made available under this heading, not less than $50,000,000 shall be 
made available to bring Amtrak-served facilities and stations into 
compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act:  Provided further, 
That after an initial distribution of up to $200,000,000, which shall 
be used by the Corporation as a working capital account, all remaining 
funds shall be provided to the Corporation only on a reimbursable 
basis:  Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading, up to $50,000,000 may be used by the Secretary to subsidize 
operating losses of the Corporation should the funds provided under the 
heading ``Operating Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation'' be insufficient to meet operational costs for fiscal year 
2016:  Provided further, That the Secretary may retain up to one-half 
of 1 percent of the funds provided under this heading to fund the costs 
of project management and oversight of activities authorized by 
subsections 101(a) and 101(c) of division B of Public Law 110-432, of 
which up to $500,000 may be available for technical assistance for 
States, the District of Columbia, and other public entities responsible 
for the implementation of section 209 of division B of Public Law 110-
432:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall approve funding for 
capital expenditures, including advance purchase orders of materials, 
for the Corporation only after receiving and reviewing a grant request 
for each specific capital project justifying the Federal support to the 
Secretary's satisfaction:  Provided further, That except as otherwise 
provided herein, none of the funds under this heading may be used to 
subsidize operating losses of the Corporation:  Provided further, That 
none of the funds under this heading may be used for capital projects 
not approved by the Secretary of Transportation or on the Corporation's 
fiscal year 2015 business plan:  Provided further, That in addition to 
the project management oversight funds authorized under section 101(d) 
of division B of Public Law 110-432, the Secretary may retain up to an 
additional $5,000,000 of the funds provided under this heading to fund 
expenses associated with implementing section 212 of division B of 
Public Law 110-432, including the amendments made by section 212 to 
section 24905 of title 49, United States Code.

       administrative provisions--federal railroad administration

    Sec. 150.  The Secretary of Transportation may receive and expend 
cash, or receive and utilize spare parts and similar items, from non-
United States Government sources to repair damages to or replace United 
States Government owned automated track inspection cars and equipment 
as a result of third-party liability for such damages, and any amounts 
collected under this section shall be credited directly to the Safety 
and Operations account of the Federal Railroad Administration, and 
shall remain available until expended for the repair, operation and 
maintenance of automated track inspection cars and equipment in 
connection with the automated track inspection program.
    Sec. 151.  None of the funds provided to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation may be used to fund any overtime costs in excess 
of $35,000 for any individual employee:  Provided, That the President 
of Amtrak may waive the cap set in the previous proviso for specific 
employees when the President of Amtrak determines such a cap poses a 
risk to the safety and operational efficiency of the system:  Provided 
further, That the President of Amtrak shall report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations each quarter of the calendar year 
on waivers granted to employees and amounts paid above the cap for each 
month within such quarter and delineate the reasons each waiver was 
granted:  Provided further, That the President of Amtrak shall report 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations by March 1, 2016, 
a summary of all overtime payments incurred by the Corporation for 2015 
and the three prior calendar years:  Provided further, That such 
summary shall include the total number of employees that received 
waivers and the total overtime payments the Corporation paid to those 
employees receiving waivers for each month for 2015 and for the three 
prior calendar years.
    Sec. 152.  Of the unobligated balances of funds available to the 
Federal Railroad Administration, the following funds are hereby 
rescinded: $4,201,385 of the unobligated balances of funds made 
available from the following accounts in the specified amounts--``Rail 
Line Relocation and Improvement Program'', $2,241,385; and ``Railroad 
Research and Development'', $1,960,000:  Provided, That such amounts 
are made available to enable the Secretary of Transportation to assist 
Class II and Class III railroads with eligible projects pursuant to 
sections 501 through 504 of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory 
Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-210), as amended:  Provided further, 
That such funds shall be available for applicant expenses in preparing 
to apply and applying for direct loans and loan guarantees as well as 
the credit risk premiums notwithstanding any other restriction against 
the use of Federal funds for such credit risk premiums:  Provided 
further, That these funds shall remain available until expended.
    Sec. 153.  Of the unobligated balances of funds available to the 
Federal Railroad Administration, the following funds are hereby 
rescinded: $5,000,000 of the unobligated balances of funds made 
available to fund expenses associated with implementing section 212 of 
division B of Public Law 110-432 in the Capital and Debt Service Grants 
to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation account of the 
Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 and 
$11,922,000 of the unobligated balances of funds made available from 
the following accounts in the specified amounts--``Grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation'', $267,019; ``Next Generation 
High-Speed Rail'', $4,944,504; and ``Safety and Operations'', 
$6,710,477:  Provided, That such amounts are made available to enable 
the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation as authorized by section 101(c) of the Passenger 
Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (division B of Public Law 
110-432) for state-of-good-repair backlog and infrastructure 
improvements on Northeast Corridor shared-use infrastructure identified 
in the Northeast Corridor Infrastructure and Operations Advisory 
Commission's approved 5-year capital plan:  Provided further, That 
these funds shall remain available until expended and shall be 
available for grants in an amount not to exceed 50 percent of the total 
project cost, with the required matching funds to be provided 
consistent with the Commission's cost allocation policy.

                     Federal Transit Administration

                        administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $107,000,000, of which not less than $5,000,000 shall be 
available to carry out the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5329 and not less 
than $1,000,000 shall be available to carry out the provisions of 49 
U.S.C. 5326:  Provided, That none of the funds provided or limited in 
this Act may be used to create a permanent office of transit security 
under this heading:  Provided further, That upon submission to the 
Congress of the fiscal year 2017 President's budget, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall transmit to Congress the annual report on New 
Starts, including proposed allocations for fiscal year 2017.

                         transit formula grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the Federal Public 
Transportation Assistance Program in this account, and for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 
5307, 5310, 5311, 5318, 5322(d), 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 
5340, as amended by Public Law 112-141, and section 20005(b) of Public 
Law 112-141, $9,500,000,000, to be derived from the Mass Transit 
Account of the Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That funds available for the implementation or 
execution of programs authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 
5311, 5318, 5322(d), 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340, as amended 
by Public Law 112-141, and section 20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, 
shall not exceed total obligations of $8,595,000,000 in fiscal year 
2016.

                            transit research

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5312 and 5313, 
$32,500,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
$30,000,000 shall be for activities authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5312 and 
$2,500,000 shall be for activities authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5313.

                   technical assistance and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5314 and 5322(a), (b) 
and (e), $3,153,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That $2,653,000 shall be for activities authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5314 
and $500,000 shall be for activities authorized under 49 U.S.C. 
5322(a), (b) and (e).

                       capital investment grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5309, $1,585,000,000, 
to remain available until expended:  Provided, That when distributing 
funds among Recommended New Starts Projects, the Administrator shall 
first fully fund those projects covered by a full funding grant 
agreement, then fully fund those projects whose section 5309 share is 
less than 40 percent, and then distribute the remaining funds so as to 
protect as much as possible the projects' budgets and schedules.

      grants to the washington metropolitan area transit authority

    For grants to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority as 
authorized under section 601 of division B of Public Law 110-432, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation shall approve grants for capital and 
preventive maintenance expenditures for the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority only after receiving and reviewing a request for 
each specific project:  Provided further, That prior to approving such 
grants, the Secretary shall certify that the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority is making progress to improve its safety 
management system in response to the Federal Transit Administration's 
2015 safety management inspection:  Provided further, That prior to 
approving such grants, the Secretary shall certify that the Washington 
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority is making progress toward full 
implementation of the corrective actions identified in the 2014 
Financial Management Oversight Review Report:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall determine that the Washington Metropolitan Area 
Transit Authority has placed the highest priority on those investments 
that will improve the safety of the system before approving such 
grants:  Provided further, That the Secretary, in order to ensure 
safety throughout the rail system, may waive the requirements of 
section 601(e)(1) of title VI of Public Law 110-432 (112 Stat. 4968).

       administrative provisions--federal transit administration

                         (including rescission)

    Sec. 160.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 
49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to any 
other authority previously made available for obligation.
    Sec. 161.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated or limited by this Act under the heading ``Fixed Guideway 
Capital Investment'' of the Federal Transit Administration for projects 
specified in this Act or identified in reports accompanying this Act 
not obligated by September 30, 2020, and other recoveries, shall be 
directed to projects eligible to use the funds for the purposes for 
which they were originally provided.
    Sec. 162.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 2015, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure, 
may be transferred to and administered under the most recent 
appropriation heading for any such section.
    Sec. 163.  The Secretary may not enforce regulations related to 
charter bus service under part 604 of title 49, Code of Federal 
Regulations, for any transit agency that during fiscal year 2008 was 
both initially granted a 60-day period to come into compliance with 
part 604, and then was subsequently granted an exception from said 
part.
    Sec. 164.  Notwithstanding the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5334 and 2 
CFR 200.313, conditions imposed as a result of any and all Federal 
public transportation assistance related to and for the use, 
encumbrance, transfer or disposition of property originally built as a 
prototype having icebreaking capabilities will be fully and completely 
satisfied by the property's use--
            (1) in the areas of Arctic research;
            (2) to map the Arctic;
            (3) to collect and analyze data in the Arctic;
            (4) to support activities that further Arctic exploration, 
        research, or development; or
            (5) for educational purposes or humanitarian relief 
        efforts.
    Sec. 165.  Projects selected for the pilot program for expedited 
project delivery under section 20008(b) of MAP-21 shall be exempt from 
the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5309(d), (e), (g), and (h). 
Notwithstanding this exemption, in determining whether a recipient has 
the financial capacity to carry out the eligible project, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall apply the requirements and considerations of 49 
U.S.C. 5309(f).
    Sec. 166.  Of the unobligated amounts made available for fiscal 
year 2011 or prior fiscal years to carry out the discretionary bus and 
bus facilities program under 49 U.S.C. 5309, $10,000,000 is hereby 
rescinded.

             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for fiscal year 
2016.

                       operations and maintenance

                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses to conduct the operations, maintenance, and 
capital asset renewal activities of those portions of the St. Lawrence 
Seaway owned, operated, and maintained by the Saint Lawrence Seaway 
Development Corporation, $28,400,000, to be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99-662.

                        Maritime Administration

                       maritime security program

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the United 
States, $186,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                        operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $170,000,000, of which $22,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for maintenance and repair of training ships 
at State Maritime Academies, and of which $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for National Security Multi-Mission Vessel 
design for State Maritime Academies and National Security, and of which 
$2,400,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2017, for the 
Student Incentive Program at State Maritime Academies, and of which 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until expended for training ship fuel 
assistance payments, and of which $18,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended for facilities maintenance and repair, equipment, and 
capital improvements at the United States Merchant Marine Academy, and 
of which $2,000,000 shall remain available through September 30, 2017, 
for Maritime Environment and Technology Assistance grants, contracts, 
and cooperative agreements, and of which $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for the Short Sea Transportation Program 
(America's Marine Highways) to make grants for the purposes provided in 
title 46 section 55601(b)(1) and 55601(b)(3):  Provided, That 50 
percent of the funding made available for the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy under this heading shall be available only after the 
Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Superintendent 
and the Maritime Administrator, completes a plan detailing by program 
or activity how such funding will be expended at the Academy, and this 
plan is submitted to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: 
 Provided further, That not later than January 12, 2016, the 
Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall transmit to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations the annual report on 
sexual assault and sexual harassment at the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy as required pursuant to section 3507 of Public Law 110-
417.

                     assistance to small shipyards

    To make grants to qualified shipyards as authorized under section 
54101 of title 46, United States Code, as amended by Public Law 113-
281, $5,000,000 to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Secretary shall issue the Notice of Funding Availability no later than 
15 days after enactment of this Act:  Provided further, That from 
applications submitted under the previous proviso, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall make grants no later than 120 days after enactment 
of this Act in such amounts as the Secretary determines:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed 2 percent of the funds appropriated under 
this heading shall be available for necessary costs of grant 
administration.

                             ship disposal

    For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete vessels 
in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Administration, 
$4,000,000, to remain available until expended.

          maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized, $8,135,000, of 
which $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
amended:  Provided further, That not to exceed $3,135,000 shall be 
available for administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
program, which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for ``Operations and Training'', Maritime 
Administration.

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Sec. 170.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Maritime Administration is authorized to furnish utilities and services 
and make necessary repairs in connection with any lease, contract, or 
occupancy involving Government property under control of the Maritime 
Administration:  Provided, That payments received therefor shall be 
credited to the appropriation charged with the cost thereof and shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided further, That rental 
payments under any such lease, contract, or occupancy for items other 
than such utilities, services, or repairs shall be covered into the 
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.

         Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

                          operational expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operational expenses of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration, $22,500,000:  Provided, That 
$1,500,000 shall be transferred to ``Pipeline Safety'' in order to fund 
``Pipeline Safety Information Grants to Communities'' as authorized 
under section 60130 of title 49, United States Code:  Provided further, 
That no later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall initiate a rulemaking to expand the 
applicability of comprehensive oil spill response plans, and shall 
issue a final rule no later than one year after the date of enactment 
of this Act.

                       hazardous materials safety

    For expenses necessary to discharge the hazardous materials safety 
functions of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration, $49,000,000, of which $2,300,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That up to $800,000 in fees 
collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited in the general 
fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts:  Provided further, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation, to be available until 
expended, funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other 
public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training, for reports publication and dissemination, and for travel 
expenses incurred in performance of hazardous materials exemptions and 
approvals functions.

                            pipeline safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the 
pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$146,623,000, of which $19,500,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 
2018; and of which $127,123,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline 
Safety Fund, of which $66,309,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided, That not less than $1,058,000 of the 
funds provided under this heading shall be for the One-Call state grant 
program.

                     emergency preparedness grants

                     (emergency preparedness fund)

    For necessary expenses to carryout 49 U.S.C. 5128(b), $188,000, to 
be derived from the Emergency Preparedness Fund, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That notwithstanding the fiscal 
year limitation specified in 49 U.S.C. 5116, not more than $28,318,000 
shall be made available for obligation in fiscal year 2016 from amounts 
made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i), and 5128(b) and (c):  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5116(i)(4), not more than 4 
percent of the amounts made available from this account shall be 
available to pay administrative costs:  Provided further, That none of 
the funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(i), 5128(b), or 5128(c) 
shall be made available for obligation by individuals other than the 
Secretary of Transportation, or his or her designee:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5128(b) and (c) and the current year 
obligation limitation, prior year recoveries recognized in the current 
year shall be available to develop a hazardous materials response 
training curriculum for emergency responders, including response 
activities for the transportation of crude oil, ethanol and other 
flammable liquids by rail, consistent with National Fire Protection 
Association standards, and to make such training available through an 
electronic format:  Provided further, That the prior year recoveries 
made available under this heading shall also be available to carry out 
49 U.S.C. 5116(b) and (j).

  administrative provisions--pipeline and hazardous materials safety 
                             administration

    Sec. 180.  The Secretary of Transportation is directed to evaluate 
and report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within 
60 days of enactment of this Act an alternative risk-based compliance 
regime for the siting of small-scale liquefaction facilities that 
generate and package liquefied natural gas for use as a fuel or 
delivery to consumers by non-pipeline modes of transportation. In 
evaluating such alternative risk-based compliance regime, the Secretary 
should consider the value of adopting quantitative risk assessment 
methods, the benefit of incorporating modern industry standards and 
best practices, including the provisions in the 2013 edition of the 
National Fire Protection Association Standard 59A, and the need to 
encourage the use of the best available technology.

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General to 
carry out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $87,472,000:  Provided, That the Inspector General shall have 
all necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department of Transportation:  Provided further, That the funds 
made available under this heading may be used to investigate, pursuant 
to section 41712 of title 49, United States Code: (1) unfair or 
deceptive practices and unfair methods of competition by domestic and 
foreign air carriers and ticket agents; and (2) the compliance of 
domestic and foreign air carriers with respect to item (1) of this 
proviso.

                      Surface Transportation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $32,375,000:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$1,250,000 from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading:  Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2016, to 
result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at no 
more than $31,125,000.

            General Provisions--Department of Transportation

    Sec. 190.  During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations to the Department of Transportation shall be available 
for maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor 
vehicles operating in foreign countries on official department 
business; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 191.  Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department 
of Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 192.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 110 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation:  Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on temporary 
detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 193. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this Act 
shall disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of motor vehicles in connection 
with a motor vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as 
provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary of Transportation 
shall not withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a 
State is in noncompliance with this provision.
    Sec. 194.  Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration, 
Federal Transit Administration, and Federal Railroad Administration 
from States, counties, municipalities, other public authorities, and 
private sources for expenses incurred for training may be credited 
respectively to the Federal Highway Administration's ``Federal-Aid 
Highways'' account, the Federal Transit Administration's ``Technical 
Assistance and Training'' account, and to the Federal Railroad 
Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except for State 
rail safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 
20105.
    Sec. 195.  None of the funds in this Act to the Department of 
Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan guarantee, line of 
credit, or grant unless the Secretary of Transportation notifies the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full 
business days before any project competitively selected to receive a 
discretionary grant award, any discretionary grant award, letter of 
intent, loan commitment, loan guarantee commitment, line of credit 
commitment, or full funding grant agreement is announced by the 
department or its modal administrations from:
            (1) any discretionary grant or federal credit program of 
        the Federal Highway Administration including the emergency 
        relief program;
            (2) the airport improvement program of the Federal Aviation 
        Administration;
            (3) any program of the Federal Railroad Administration;
            (4) any program of the Federal Transit Administration other 
        than the formula grants and fixed guideway modernization 
        programs;
            (5) any program of the Maritime Administration; or
            (6) any funding provided under the headings ``National 
        Infrastructure Investments'' in this Act:
  Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation gives concurrent 
notification to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations for 
any ``quick release'' of funds from the emergency relief program:  
Provided further, That no notification shall involve funds that are not 
available for obligation.
    Sec. 196.  Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and 
other funds received by the Department of Transportation from travel 
management centers, charge card programs, the subleasing of building 
space, and miscellaneous sources are to be credited to appropriations 
of the Department of Transportation and allocated to elements of the 
Department of Transportation using fair and equitable criteria and such 
funds shall be available until expended.
    Sec. 197.  Amounts made available in this or any other Act that the 
Secretary of Transportation determines represent improper payments by 
the Department of Transportation to a third-party contractor under a 
financial assistance award, which are recovered pursuant to law, shall 
be available--
            (1) to reimburse the actual expenses incurred by the 
        Department of Transportation in recovering improper payments; 
        and
            (2) to pay contractors for services provided in recovering 
        improper payments or contractor support in the implementation 
        of the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002:  Provided, 
        That amounts in excess of that required for paragraphs (1) and 
        (2)--
                    (A) shall be credited to and merged with the 
                appropriation from which the improper payments were 
                made, and shall be available for the purposes and 
                period for which such appropriations are available:  
                Provided further, That where specific project or 
                accounting information associated with the improper 
                payment or payments is not readily available, the 
                Secretary may credit an appropriate account, which 
                shall be available for the purposes and period 
                associated with the account so credited; or
                    (B) if no such appropriation remains available, 
                shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous 
                receipts:  Provided further, That prior to the transfer 
                of any such recovery to an appropriations account, the 
                Secretary shall notify the House and Senate Committees 
                on Appropriations of the amount and reasons for such 
                transfer:  Provided further, That for purposes of this 
                section, the term ``improper payments'' has the same 
                meaning as that provided in section 2(d)(2) of Public 
                Law 107-300.
    Sec. 198.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if any funds 
provided in or limited by this Act are subject to a reprogramming 
action that requires notice to be provided to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, transmission of said reprogramming notice 
shall be provided solely to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, and said reprogramming action shall be approved or 
denied solely by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations:  
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation may provide notice to 
other congressional committees of the action of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations on such reprogramming but not sooner than 
30 days following the date on which the reprogramming action has been 
approved or denied by the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 199.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Surface Transportation 
Board of the Department of Transportation to charge or collect any 
filing fee for rate or practice complaints filed with the Board in an 
amount in excess of the amount authorized for district court civil suit 
filing fees under section 1914 of title 28, United States Code.
    Sec. 199A.  Funds appropriated in this Act to the modal 
administrations may be obligated for the Office of the Secretary for 
the costs related to assessments or reimbursable agreements only when 
such amounts are for the costs of goods and services that are purchased 
to provide a direct benefit to the applicable modal administration or 
administrations.
    Sec. 199B.  The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to carry 
out a program that establishes uniform standards for developing and 
supporting agency transit pass and transit benefits authorized under 
section 7905 of title 5, United States Code, including distribution of 
transit benefits by various paper and electronic media.
    Sec. 199C.  The Department of Transportation may use funds provided 
by this Act, or any other Act, to implement a pilot program under title 
49 U.S.C. or title 23 U.S.C. for geographic, economic, or any other 
hiring preference not otherwise authorized by law, or to amend a rule, 
regulation, policy or other measure that forbids a recipient of a 
Federal Highway Administration or Federal Transit Administration grant 
from imposing such hiring preference on a construction project with 
which the Department of Transportation is assisting, only if the grant 
recipient certifies the following:
            (1) that except with respect to apprentices or trainees, a 
        pool of readily available but unemployed individuals possessing 
        the knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the work that the 
        project requires resides in the jurisdiction;
            (2) that the grant recipient will include appropriate 
        provisions in its bid document ensuring that the contractor 
        does not displace any of its existing employees in order to 
        satisfy such hiring preference; and
            (3) that any increase in the cost of labor, training, or 
        delays resulting from the use of such hiring preference does 
        not delay or displace any transportation project in the 
        applicable Statewide Transportation Improvement Program or 
        Transportation Improvement Program.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.

                                TITLE II

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                     Management and Administration

                           executive offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Executive Offices, which 
shall be comprised of the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, 
Adjudicatory Services, Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, 
Public Affairs, Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, and the 
Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, $14,500,000:  
Provided, That not to exceed $25,000 of the amount made available under 
this heading shall be available to the Secretary for official reception 
and representation expenses as the Secretary may determine.

                     administrative support offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Administrative Support 
Offices, $568,244,000, of which not to exceed $44,657,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Chief Financial Officer; not to exceed 
$96,000,000 shall be available for the Office of the General Counsel; 
not to exceed $208,604,000 shall be available for the Office of 
Administration; not to exceed $61,475,000 shall be available for the 
Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer; not to exceed $50,000,000 
shall be available for the Office of Field Policy and Management; not 
to exceed $17,036,000 shall be available for the Office of the Chief 
Procurement Officer; not to exceed $3,270,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity; not to exceed 
$4,400,000 shall be available for the Office of Strategic Planning and 
Management; and not to exceed $82,802,000 shall be available for the 
Office of the Chief Information Officer:  Provided, That funds provided 
under this heading may be used for necessary administrative and non-
administrative expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development, not otherwise provided for, including purchase of 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds appropriated under this heading may be used for 
advertising and promotional activities that support the housing mission 
area:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations quarterly written notification 
regarding the status of pending congressional reports:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall provide in electronic form all signed 
reports required by Congress.

                  Program Office Salaries and Expenses

                       public and indian housing

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Public and 
Indian Housing, $207,000,000.

                   community planning and development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Community 
Planning and Development, $107,000,000.

                                housing

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Housing, 
$382,000,000.

                    policy development and research

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Policy 
Development and Research, $23,100,000.

                   fair housing and equal opportunity

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Fair Housing 
and Equal Opportunity, $69,500,000.

            office of lead hazard control and healthy homes

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Lead Hazard 
Control and Healthy Homes, $6,800,000.

                       Public and Indian Housing

                     tenant-based rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of tenant-based 
rental assistance authorized under the United States Housing Act of 
1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act'' herein), not 
otherwise provided for, $15,934,643,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available on October 1, 2015 (in addition to the 
$4,000,000,000 previously appropriated under this heading that shall be 
available on October 1, 2015), and $4,000,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be available on October 1, 2016:  Provided, That 
the amounts made available under this heading are provided as follows:
            (1) $17,982,000,000 shall be available for renewals of 
        expiring section 8 tenant-based annual contributions contracts 
        (including renewals of enhanced vouchers under any provision of 
        law authorizing such assistance under section 8(t) of the Act) 
        and including renewal of other special purpose incremental 
        vouchers:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law, from amounts provided under this paragraph and any 
        carryover, the Secretary for the calendar year 2016 funding 
        cycle shall provide renewal funding for each public housing 
        agency based on validated voucher management system (VMS) 
        leasing and cost data for the prior calendar year and by 
        applying an inflation factor as established by the Secretary, 
        by notice published in the Federal Register, and by making any 
        necessary adjustments for the costs associated with the first-
        time renewal of vouchers under this paragraph including tenant 
        protection, HOPE VI, and Choice Neighborhoods vouchers:  
        Provided further, That in determining calendar year 2016 
        funding allocations under this heading for public housing 
        agencies, including agencies participating in the Moving To 
        Work (MTW) demonstration, the Secretary may take into account 
        the anticipated impact of changes in targeting and utility 
        allowances, on public housing agencies' contract renewal needs: 
         Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
        paragraph may be used to fund a total number of unit months 
        under lease which exceeds a public housing agency's authorized 
        level of units under contract, except for public housing 
        agencies participating in the MTW demonstration, which are 
        instead governed by the terms and conditions of their MTW 
        agreements:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the 
        extent necessary to stay within the amount specified under this 
        paragraph (except as otherwise modified under this paragraph), 
        prorate each public housing agency's allocation otherwise 
        established pursuant to this paragraph:  Provided further, That 
        except as provided in the following provisos, the entire amount 
        specified under this paragraph (except as otherwise modified 
        under this paragraph) shall be obligated to the public housing 
        agencies based on the allocation and pro rata method described 
        above, and the Secretary shall notify public housing agencies 
        of their annual budget by the latter of 60 days after enactment 
        of this Act or March 1, 2016:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary may extend the notification period with the prior 
        written approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations:  Provided further, That public housing agencies 
        participating in the MTW demonstration shall be funded pursuant 
        to their MTW agreements and shall be subject to the same pro 
        rata adjustments under the previous provisos:  Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may offset public housing agencies' 
        calendar year 2016 allocations based on the excess amounts of 
        public housing agencies' net restricted assets accounts, 
        including HUD held programmatic reserves (in accordance with 
        VMS data in calendar year 2015 that is verifiable and 
        complete), as determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, 
        That public housing agencies participating in the MTW 
        demonstration shall also be subject to the offset, as 
        determined by the Secretary, excluding amounts subject to the 
        single fund budget authority provisions of their MTW 
        agreements, from the agencies' calendar year 2016 MTW funding 
        allocation:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall use any 
        offset referred to in the previous two provisos throughout the 
        calendar year to prevent the termination of rental assistance 
        for families as the result of insufficient funding, as 
        determined by the Secretary, and to avoid or reduce the 
        proration of renewal funding allocations:  Provided further, 
        That up to $75,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for 
        adjustments in the allocations for public housing agencies, 
        after application for an adjustment by a public housing agency 
        that experienced a significant increase, as determined by the 
        Secretary, in renewal costs of vouchers resulting from 
        unforeseen circumstances or from portability under section 8(r) 
        of the Act; (2) for vouchers that were not in use during the 
        previous 12-month period in order to be available to meet a 
        commitment pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of the Act; (3) for 
        adjustments for costs associated with HUD-Veterans Affairs 
        Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) vouchers; and (4) for public 
        housing agencies that despite taking reasonable cost savings 
        measures, as determined by the Secretary, would otherwise be 
        required to terminate rental assistance for families as a 
        result of insufficient funding:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary shall allocate amounts under the previous proviso 
        based on need, as determined by the Secretary;
            (2) $130,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental assistance 
        for relocation and replacement of housing units that are 
        demolished or disposed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act, 
        conversion of section 23 projects to assistance under section 
        8, the family unification program under section 8(x) of the 
        Act, relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts to 
        combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to a 
        request from a law enforcement or prosecution agency, enhanced 
        vouchers under any provision of law authorizing such assistance 
        under section 8(t) of the Act, HOPE VI and Choice Neighborhood 
        Initiative vouchers, mandatory and voluntary conversions, and 
        tenant protection assistance including replacement and 
        relocation assistance or for project-based assistance to 
        prevent the displacement of unassisted elderly tenants 
        currently residing in section 202 properties financed between 
        1959 and 1974 that are refinanced pursuant to Public Law 106-
        569, as amended, or under the authority as provided under this 
        Act:  Provided, That when a public housing development is 
        submitted for demolition or disposition under section 18 of the 
        Act, the Secretary may provide section 8 rental assistance when 
        the units pose an imminent health and safety risk to residents: 
         Provided further, That the Secretary may only provide 
        replacement vouchers for units that were occupied within the 
        previous 24 months that cease to be available as assisted 
        housing, subject only to the availability of funds:  Provided 
        further, That any tenant protection voucher made available from 
        amounts under this paragraph shall not be reissued by any 
        public housing agency, except the replacement vouchers as 
        defined by the Secretary by notice, when the initial family 
        that received any such voucher no longer receives such voucher, 
        and the authority for any public housing agency to issue any 
        such voucher shall cease to exist:  Provided further, That the 
        Secretary, for the purposes under this paragraph, may use 
        unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryovers, 
        remaining from amounts appropriated in prior fiscal years under 
        this heading for voucher assistance for nonelderly disabled 
        families and for disaster assistance made available under 
        Public Law 110-329;
            (3) $1,620,000,000 shall be for administrative and other 
        expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
        section 8 tenant-based rental assistance program, of which up 
        to $10,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary to allocate 
        to public housing agencies that need additional funds to 
        administer their section 8 programs, including fees associated 
        with section 8 tenant protection rental assistance, the 
        administration of disaster related vouchers, Veterans Affairs 
        Supportive Housing vouchers, and other special purpose 
        incremental vouchers:  Provided, That no less than 
        $1,610,000,000 of the amount provided in this paragraph shall 
        be allocated to public housing agencies for the calendar year 
        2016 funding cycle based on section 8(q) of the Act (and 
        related Appropriation Act provisions) as in effect immediately 
        before the enactment of the Quality Housing and Work 
        Responsibility Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-276):  Provided 
        further, That if the amounts made available under this 
        paragraph are insufficient to pay the amounts determined under 
        the previous proviso, the Secretary may decrease the amounts 
        allocated to agencies by a uniform percentage applicable to all 
        agencies receiving funding under this paragraph or may, to the 
        extent necessary to provide full payment of amounts determined 
        under the previous proviso, utilize unobligated balances, 
        including recaptures and carryovers, remaining from funds 
        appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
        under this heading from prior fiscal years, excluding special 
        purpose vouchers, notwithstanding the purposes for which such 
        amounts were appropriated:  Provided further, That all public 
        housing agencies participating in the MTW demonstration shall 
        be funded pursuant to their MTW agreements, and shall be 
        subject to the same uniform percentage decrease as under the 
        previous proviso:  Provided further, That amounts provided 
        under this paragraph shall be only for activities related to 
        the provision of tenant-based rental assistance authorized 
        under section 8, including related development activities;
            (4) $107,643,000 for the renewal of tenant-based assistance 
        contracts under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including necessary 
        administrative expenses:  Provided, That administrative and 
        other expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
        special purpose vouchers in this paragraph shall be funded 
        under the same terms and be subject to the same pro rata 
        reduction as the percent decrease for administrative and other 
        expenses to public housing agencies under paragraph (3) of this 
        heading;
            (5) $75,000,000 for incremental rental voucher assistance 
        for use through a supported housing program administered in 
        conjunction with the Department of Veterans Affairs as 
        authorized under section 8(o)(19) of the United States Housing 
        Act of 1937:  Provided, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development shall make such funding available, notwithstanding 
        section 204 (competition provision) of this title, to public 
        housing agencies that partner with eligible VA Medical Centers 
        or other entities as designated by the Secretary of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs, based on geographical need for 
        such assistance as identified by the Secretary of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs, public housing agency 
        administrative performance, and other factors as specified by 
        the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in consultation 
        with the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs:  
        Provided further, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development may waive, or specify alternative requirements for 
        (in consultation with the Secretary of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs), any provision of any statute or regulation 
        that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development administers 
        in connection with the use of funds made available under this 
        paragraph (except for requirements related to fair housing, 
        nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon 
        a finding by the Secretary that any such waivers or alternative 
        requirements are necessary for the effective delivery and 
        administration of such voucher assistance:  Provided further, 
        That assistance made available under this paragraph shall 
        continue to remain available for homeless veterans upon turn-
        over;
            (6) $20,000,000 shall be made available for new incremental 
        voucher assistance through the Family Unification Program as 
        authorized by section 8(x) of the Act:  Provided, That the 
        assistance made available under this paragraph shall continue 
        to remain available for family unification upon turnover; and
            (7) The Secretary shall separately track all special 
        purpose vouchers funded under this heading.

                        housing certificate fund

                        (including rescissions)

    Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development under this heading, the heading ``Annual Contributions for 
Assisted Housing'' and the heading ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'', 
for fiscal year 2016 and prior years may be used for renewal of or 
amendments to section 8 project-based contracts and for performance-
based contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which 
such funds were appropriated:  Provided, That any obligated balances of 
contract authority from fiscal year 1974 and prior that have been 
terminated shall be rescinded:  Provided further, That amounts 
heretofore recaptured, or recaptured during the current fiscal year, 
from section 8 project-based contracts from source years fiscal year 
1975 through fiscal year 1987 are hereby rescinded, and an amount of 
additional new budget authority, equivalent to the amount rescinded is 
hereby appropriated, to remain available until expended, for the 
purposes set forth under this heading, in addition to amounts otherwise 
available.

                      public housing capital fund

    For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program to carry out capital 
and management activities for public housing agencies, as authorized 
under section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437g) (the ``Act'') $1,742,870,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2019:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law or regulation, during fiscal year 2016, the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development may not delegate to any Department official other 
than the Deputy Secretary and the Assistant Secretary for Public and 
Indian Housing any authority under paragraph (2) of section 9(j) 
regarding the extension of the time periods under such section:  
Provided further, That for purposes of such section 9(j), the term 
``obligate'' means, with respect to amounts, that the amounts are 
subject to a binding agreement that will result in outlays, immediately 
or in the future:  Provided further, That up to $3,000,000 shall be to 
support ongoing Public Housing Financial and Physical Assessment 
activities:  Provided further, That up to $1,000,000 shall be to 
support the costs of administrative and judicial receiverships:  
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, 
not to exceed $23,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary to make 
grants, notwithstanding section 204 of this Act, to public housing 
agencies for emergency capital needs including safety and security 
measures necessary to address crime and drug-related activity as well 
as needs resulting from unforeseen or unpreventable emergencies and 
natural disasters excluding Presidentially declared emergencies and 
natural disasters under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in fiscal year 2016:  
Provided further, That of the amount made available under the previous 
proviso, not less than $6,000,000 shall be for safety and security 
measures:  Provided further, That of the total amount provided under 
this heading $35,000,000 shall be for supportive services, service 
coordinator and congregate services as authorized by section 34 of the 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-6) and the Native American Housing Assistance and 
Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.):  Provided 
further, That of the total amount made available under this heading, 
$15,000,000 shall be for a Jobs-Plus initiative modeled after the Jobs-
Plus demonstration:  Provided further, That the funding provided under 
the previous proviso shall provide competitive grants to partnerships 
between public housing authorities, local workforce investment boards 
established under section 117 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, 
and other agencies and organizations that provide support to help 
public housing residents obtain employment and increase earnings:  
Provided further, That applicants must demonstrate the ability to 
provide services to residents, partner with workforce investment 
boards, and leverage service dollars:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may allow public housing agencies to request exemptions from 
rent and income limitation requirements under sections 3 and 6 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 as necessary to implement the Jobs-
Plus program, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may approve 
upon a finding by the Secretary that any such waivers or alternative 
requirements are necessary for the effective implementation of the 
Jobs-Plus initiative as a voluntary program for residents:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall publish by notice in the Federal 
Register any waivers or alternative requirements pursuant to the 
preceding proviso no later than 10 days before the effective date of 
such notice:  Provided further, That for funds provided under this 
heading, the limitation in section 9(g)(1)(A) of the Act shall be 25 
percent:  Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the limitation 
in the previous proviso to allow public housing agencies to fund 
activities authorized under section 9(e)(1)(C) of the Act:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall notify public housing agencies 
requesting waivers under the previous proviso if the request is 
approved or denied within 14 days of submitting the request:  Provided 
further, That from the funds made available under this heading, the 
Secretary shall provide bonus awards in fiscal year 2016 to public 
housing agencies that are designated high performers:  Provided 
further, That the Department shall notify public housing agencies of 
their formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

                     public housing operating fund

    For 2016 payments to public housing agencies for the operation and 
management of public housing, as authorized by section 9(e) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,500,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2017.

                    choice neighborhoods initiative

    For competitive grants under the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative 
(subject to section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise specified under this heading), for 
transformation, rehabilitation, and replacement housing needs of both 
public and HUD-assisted housing and to transform neighborhoods of 
poverty into functioning, sustainable mixed income neighborhoods with 
appropriate services, schools, public assets, transportation and access 
to jobs, $65,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That grant funds may be used for resident and community 
services, community development, and affordable housing needs in the 
community, and for conversion of vacant or foreclosed properties to 
affordable housing:  Provided further, That the use of funds made 
available under this heading shall not be deemed to be public housing 
notwithstanding section 3(b)(1) of such Act:  Provided further, That 
grantees shall commit to an additional period of affordability 
determined by the Secretary of not fewer than 20 years:  Provided 
further, That grantees shall undertake comprehensive local planning 
with input from residents and the community, and that grantees shall 
provide a match in State, local, other Federal or private funds:  
Provided further, That grantees may include local governments, tribal 
entities, public housing authorities, and nonprofits:  Provided 
further, That for-profit developers may apply jointly with a public 
entity:  Provided further, That for purposes of environmental review, a 
grantee shall be treated as a public housing agency under section 26 of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437x), and grants 
under this heading shall be subject to the regulations issued by the 
Secretary to implement such section:  Provided further, That of the 
amount provided, not less than $40,000,000 shall be awarded to public 
housing agencies:  Provided further, That such grantees shall create 
partnerships with other local organizations including assisted housing 
owners, service agencies, and resident organizations:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall consult with the Secretaries of 
Education, Labor, Transportation, Health and Human Services, 
Agriculture, and Commerce, the Attorney General, and the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency to coordinate and leverage other 
appropriate Federal resources:  Provided further, That no more than 
$5,000,000 of funds made available under this heading may be provided 
to assist communities in developing comprehensive strategies for 
implementing this program or implementing other revitalization efforts 
in conjunction with community notice and input:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall develop and publish guidelines for the use of such 
competitive funds, including but not limited to eligible activities, 
program requirements, and performance metrics.

                        family self-sufficiency

    For the Family Self-Sufficiency program to support family self-
sufficiency coordinators under section 23 of the United States Housing 
Act of 1937, to promote the development of local strategies to 
coordinate the use of assistance under sections 8(o) and 9 of such Act 
with public and private resources, and enable eligible families to 
achieve economic independence and self-sufficiency, $75,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may, by Federal Register notice, waive or specify alternative 
requirements under sections b(3), b(4), b(5), or c(1) of section 23 of 
such Act in order to facilitate the operation of a unified self-
sufficiency program for individuals receiving assistance under 
different provisions of the Act, as determined by the Secretary:  
Provided further, That owners of a privately owned multifamily property 
with a section 8 contract may voluntarily make a Family Self-
Sufficiency program available to the assisted tenants of such property 
in accordance with procedures established by the Secretary:  Provided 
further, That such procedures established pursuant to the previous 
proviso shall permit participating tenants to accrue escrow funds in 
accordance with section 23(d)(2) and shall allow owners to use funding 
from residual receipt accounts to hire coordinators for their own 
Family Self-Sufficiency program.

                          indian block grants

    For the Indian Housing Block Grants program, as authorized under 
title I of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), 
$650,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020:  Provided, 
That, notwithstanding the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996, to determine the amount of the allocation 
under title I of such Act for each Indian tribe, the Secretary shall 
apply the formula under section 302 of such Act with the need component 
based on single-race census data and with the need component based on 
multi-race census data, and the amount of the allocation for each 
Indian tribe shall be the greater of the two resulting allocation 
amounts:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the previous proviso, 
no Indian tribe shall receive an allocation amount greater than 10 
percent:  Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading, $2,000,000 shall be made available for the cost of guaranteed 
notes and other obligations, as authorized by title VI of NAHASDA:  
Provided further, That such costs, including the costs of modifying 
such notes and other obligations, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended:  Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize the total principal amount 
of any notes and other obligations, any part of which is to be 
guaranteed, not to exceed $17,452,007:  Provided further, That the 
Department will notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 
days of the date of enactment of this Act.
    In addition to amounts made available under the first paragraph 
under this heading, $60,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2018, shall be for grants to Indian tribes for carrying out the 
Community Development Block Grant program under title I of the Housing 
and Community Development Act of 1974 notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) 
of such Act, of which, up to $4,000,000 may be used for emergencies 
that constitute imminent threats to health and safety notwithstanding 
any other provision of law (including section 204 of this title):  
Provided, That not to exceed 20 percent of any grant made with funds 
appropriated under this paragraph shall be expended for planning and 
management development and administration.

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
13a), $7,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
such costs, including the costs of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total 
loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, up to 
$1,111,111,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That up to $750,000 of this amount may be for administrative contract 
expenses including management processes and systems to carry out the 
loan guarantee program.

                   Community Planning and Development

              housing opportunities for persons with aids

    For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 
program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
12901 et seq.), $330,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2017, except that amounts allocated pursuant to section 854(c)(3) of 
such Act shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That the Secretary shall renew all expiring contracts for permanent 
supportive housing that initially were funded under section 854(c)(3) 
of such Act from funds made available under this heading in fiscal year 
2010 and prior fiscal years that meet all program requirements before 
awarding funds for new contracts under such section:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 12903, the Secretary shall allocate 90 
percent of the funds by formula, of which 75 percent shall be among 
cities that are the most populous unit of general local government in a 
metropolitan statistical area with a population greater than 500,000 
and have more than 2,000 persons living with the human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV), and States with more than 2,000 persons living with HIV 
outside of metropolitan statistical areas, as reported to and confirmed 
by the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
as of December 31 of the most recent calendar year for which such data 
is available, and of which 25 percent shall be among States and 
metropolitan statistical areas based on fair market rents and area 
poverty indexes, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, 
That a grantee's share shall not reflect a loss greater than 10 percent 
or a gain greater than 20 percent of the share of total available 
formula funds that the grantee received in the preceding fiscal year:  
Provided further, That any grantee that received a formula allocation 
in fiscal year 2015 shall continue to be eligible for formula 
allocation in this fiscal year:  Provided further, That the Department 
shall notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 days of 
enactment of this Act.

                       community development fund

    For carrying out the Community Development Block Grant program 
under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as 
amended (the ``Act'' herein) (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), $2,900,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That unless 
explicitly provided for under this heading, not to exceed 20 percent of 
any grant made with funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
expended for planning and management development and administration:  
Provided further, That a metropolitan city, urban county, unit of 
general local government, or insular area that directly or indirectly 
receives funds under this heading may not sell, trade, or otherwise 
transfer all or any portion of such funds to another such entity in 
exchange for any other funds, credits or non-Federal considerations, 
but must use such funds for activities eligible under title I of the 
Act:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 105(e)(1) of the 
Act, no funds provided under this heading may be provided to a for-
profit entity for an economic development project under section 
105(a)(17) unless such project has been evaluated and selected in 
accordance with guidelines required under subparagraph (e)(2):  
Provided further, That the Department shall notify grantees of their 
formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

         community development loan guarantees program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
during fiscal year 2016, commitments to guarantee loans under section 
108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 
5308), any part of which is guaranteed, shall not exceed a total 
principal amount of $300,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate 
limitation on outstanding obligations guaranteed in subsection (k) of 
such section 108:  Provided, That the Secretary shall collect fees from 
borrowers, notwithstanding section 108(m), to result in a credit 
subsidy cost of zero for guaranteeing such loans, and any such fees 
shall be collected in accordance with section 502(7) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME Investment Partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as 
amended, $66,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019:  
Provided, That notwithstanding the amount made available under this 
heading, the threshold reduction requirements in sections 216(10) and 
217(b)(4) of such Act shall not apply to allocations of such amount:  
Provided further, That the requirements under provisos 2 through 6 
under this heading for fiscal year 2012 and such requirements 
applicable pursuant to the ``Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2013'', shall not apply to any project to which funds were committed on 
or after August 23, 2013, but such projects shall instead be governed 
by the Final Rule titled ``Home Investment Partnerships Program; 
Improving Performance and Accountability; Updating Property Standards'' 
which became effective on such date:  Provided further, That with 
respect to funds made available under this heading pursuant to such Act 
and funds provided in prior and subsequent appropriations acts that 
were or are used by community land trusts for the development of 
affordable homeownership housing pursuant to section 215(b) of such 
Act, such community land trusts, notwithstanding section 215(b)(3)(A) 
of such Act, may hold and exercise purchase options, rights of first 
refusal or other preemptive rights to purchase the housing to preserve 
affordability, including but not limited to the right to purchase the 
housing in lieu of foreclosure:  Provided further, That the Department 
shall notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 days of 
enactment of this Act.

        self-help and assisted homeownership opportunity program

    For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program, 
as authorized under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program 
Extension Act of 1996, as amended, $50,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be made available to the Self-
Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program as authorized under 
section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996, as 
amended:  Provided further, That $35,000,000 shall be made available 
for the second, third, and fourth capacity building activities 
authorized under section 4(a) of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (42 
U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not less than $5,000,000 shall be made 
available for rural capacity building activities:  Provided further, 
That $5,000,000 shall be made available for capacity building by 
national rural housing organizations with experience assessing national 
rural conditions and providing financing, training, technical 
assistance, information, and research to local nonprofits, local 
governments and Indian Tribes serving high need rural communities:  
Provided further, That an additional $5,700,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be for a program to rehabilitate and modify homes 
of disabled and low-income veterans as authorized under section 1079 of 
Public Law 113-291.

                       homeless assistance grants

    For the Emergency Solutions Grants program as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, 
as amended; the continuum of care program as authorized under subtitle 
C of title IV of such Act; and the Rural Housing Stability Assistance 
program as authorized under subtitle D of title IV of such Act, 
$2,235,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That any rental assistance amounts that are recaptured under 
such Continuum of Care program shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That not less than $250,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for such Emergency 
Solutions Grants program:  Provided further, That not less than 
$1,918,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for such Continuum of Care and Rural Housing Stability 
Assistance programs:  Provided further, That up to $7,000,000 of the 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for the 
national homeless data analysis project:  Provided further, That up to 
$2,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available to the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services, for a national study on the prevalence, 
needs, and characteristics of homelessness among youth as authorized 
under section 345 of the Runaway Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-
25), notwithstanding section 204 of this title:  Provided further, That 
up to $33,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
to implement projects to demonstrate how a comprehensive approach to 
serving homeless youth, age 24 and under, in up to 10 communities, 
including at least four rural communities, can dramatically reduce 
youth homelessness:  Provided further, That such projects shall be 
eligible for renewal under the Continuum of Care program subject to the 
same terms and conditions as other renewal applicants:  Provided 
further, That up to $5,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this 
heading shall be available to provide technical assistance on youth 
homelessness, and collection, analysis, and reporting of data and 
performance measures under the comprehensive approaches to serve 
homeless youth, in addition to and in coordination with other technical 
assistance funds provided under this title:  Provided further, That all 
funds awarded for supportive services under the Continuum of Care 
program and the Rural Housing Stability Assistance program shall be 
matched by not less than 25 percent in cash or in kind by each grantee: 
 Provided further, That for all match requirements applicable to funds 
made available under this heading for this fiscal year and prior years, 
a grantee may use (or could have used) as a source of match funds other 
funds administered by the Secretary and other Federal agencies unless a 
specific statutory prohibition on any such use of any such funds 
exists:  Provided further, That the Secretary may renew on an annual 
basis expiring contracts or amendments to contracts funded under the 
Continuum of Care program if the program is determined to be needed 
under the applicable Continuum of Care and meets appropriate program 
requirements, performance measures, and financial standards, as 
determined by the Secretary:  Provided further, That all awards of 
assistance under this heading shall be required to coordinate and 
integrate homeless programs with other mainstream health, social 
services, and employment programs for which homeless populations may be 
eligible:  Provided further, That with respect to funds provided under 
this heading for the Continuum of Care program for fiscal years 2016 
and 2017, permanent housing rental assistance may be administered by 
private nonprofit organizations:  Provided further, That youth aged 24 
and under seeking assistance under this heading shall not be required 
to provide third party documentation to establish their eligibility 
under 42 U.S.C. 11302(a) or (b) to receive services:  Provided further, 
That unaccompanied youth aged 24 and under or families headed by youth 
aged 24 and under who are living in unsafe situations may be served by 
youth-serving providers funded under this heading:  Provided further, 
That in awarding grants with funds appropriated under this heading, the 
Secretary shall ensure that incentives created through the application 
process fairly balance priorities for different populations, including 
youth, families, veterans, and people experiencing chronic 
homelessness:  Provided further, That any unobligated amounts remaining 
from funds appropriated under this heading in fiscal year 2012 and 
prior years for project-based rental assistance for rehabilitation 
projects with 10-year grant terms may be used for purposes under this 
heading, notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds were 
appropriated:  Provided further, That all balances for Shelter Plus 
Care renewals previously funded from the Shelter Plus Care Renewal 
account and transferred to this account shall be available, if 
recaptured, for Continuum of Care renewals in fiscal year 2016:  
Provided further, That the Department shall notify grantees of their 
formula allocation from amounts allocated (which may represent initial 
or final amounts allocated) for the Emergency Solutions Grant program 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

                            Housing Programs

                    project-based rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of project-based 
subsidy contracts under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act''), not otherwise provided for, 
$10,426,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available 
on October 1, 2015 (in addition to the $400,000,000 previously 
appropriated under this heading that became available October 1, 2015), 
and $400,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
available on October 1, 2016:  Provided, That the amounts made 
available under this heading shall be available for expiring or 
terminating section 8 project-based subsidy contracts (including 
section 8 moderate rehabilitation contracts), for amendments to section 
8 project-based subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation contracts), for contracts entered into pursuant to 
section 441 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11401), for renewal of section 8 contracts for units in projects that 
are subject to approved plans of action under the Emergency Low Income 
Housing Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preservation 
and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990, and for administrative and 
other expenses associated with project-based activities and assistance 
funded under this paragraph:  Provided further, That of the total 
amounts provided under this heading, not to exceed $215,000,000 shall 
be available for performance-based contract administrators for section 
8 project-based assistance, for carrying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f):  
Provided further, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
may also use such amounts in the previous proviso for performance-based 
contract administrators for the administration of: interest reduction 
payments pursuant to section 236(a) of the National Housing Act (12 
U.S.C. 1715z-1(a)); rent supplement payments pursuant to section 101 of 
the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); 
section 236(f)(2) rental assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(f)(2)); 
project rental assistance contracts for the elderly under section 
202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project rental 
assistance contracts for supportive housing for persons with 
disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2)); project assistance 
contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public 
Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667); and loans under section 202 of the Housing 
Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667):  Provided further, That 
amounts recaptured under this heading, the heading ``Annual 
Contributions for Assisted Housing'', or the heading ``Housing 
Certificate Fund'', may be used for renewals of or amendments to 
section 8 project-based contracts or for performance-based contract 
administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which such amounts 
were appropriated:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, upon the request of the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development, project funds that are held in residual receipts 
accounts for any project subject to a section 8 project-based Housing 
Assistance Payments contract that authorizes HUD or a Housing Finance 
Agency to require that surplus project funds be deposited in an 
interest-bearing residual receipts account and that are in excess of an 
amount to be determined by the Secretary, shall be remitted to the 
Department and deposited in this account, to be available until 
expended:  Provided further, That amounts deposited pursuant to the 
previous proviso shall be available in addition to the amount otherwise 
provided by this heading for uses authorized under this heading.

                        housing for the elderly

    For amendments to capital advance contracts for housing for the 
elderly, as authorized by section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as 
amended, and for project rental assistance for the elderly under 
section 202(c)(2) of such Act, including amendments to contracts for 
such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for such assistance 
for up to a 1-year term, and for senior preservation rental assistance 
contracts, including renewals, as authorized by section 811(e) of the 
American Housing and Economic Opportunity Act of 2000, as amended, and 
for supportive services associated with the housing, $420,000,000 to 
remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That of the 
amount provided under this heading, up to $77,000,000 shall be for 
service coordinators and the continuation of existing congregate 
service grants for residents of assisted housing projects:  Provided 
further, That amounts under this heading shall be available for Real 
Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-related activities 
associated with section 202 projects:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may waive the provisions of section 202 governing the terms 
and conditions of project rental assistance, except that the initial 
contract term for such assistance shall not exceed 5 years in duration: 
 Provided further, That upon request of the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development, project funds that are held in residual receipts 
accounts for any project subject to a section 202 project rental 
assistance contract, and that upon termination of such contract are in 
excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary, shall be 
remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, to be 
available until September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That amounts 
deposited in this account pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
available, in addition to the amounts otherwise provided by this 
heading, for the purposes funded under this heading, and if such 
purposes have been fully funded, may be used by the Secretary to 
support demonstration programs to test housing with services models for 
the elderly:  Provided further, That unobligated balances, including 
recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds transferred to or 
appropriated under this heading may be used for the current purposes 
authorized under this heading notwithstanding the purposes for which 
such funds originally were appropriated.

                 housing for persons with disabilities

    For amendments to capital advance contracts for supportive housing 
for persons with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of the 
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), for 
project rental assistance for supportive housing for persons with 
disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of such Act and for project 
assistance contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 
1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667), including amendments to 
contracts for such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for 
such assistance for up to a 1-year term, for project rental assistance 
to State housing finance agencies and other appropriate entities as 
authorized under section 811(b)(3) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Housing Act, and for supportive services associated with the housing 
for persons with disabilities as authorized by section 811(b)(1) of 
such Act, $137,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019:  
Provided, That amounts made available under this heading shall be 
available for Real Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-
related activities associated with section 811 projects:  Provided 
further, That, in this fiscal year, upon the request of the Secretary 
of Housing and Urban Development, project funds that are held in 
residual receipts accounts for any project subject to a section 811 
project rental assistance contract and that upon termination of such 
contract are in excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary 
shall be remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, to 
be available until September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That amounts 
deposited in this account pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
available in addition to the amounts otherwise provided by this heading 
for the purposes authorized under this heading:  Provided further, That 
unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds transferred to or appropriated under this heading may be 
used for the current purposes authorized under this heading 
notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds originally were 
appropriated.

                     housing counseling assistance

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance excluding loans, as 
authorized under section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act 
of 1968, as amended, $47,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2017, including up to $4,500,000 for administrative contract 
services:  Provided, That grants made available from amounts provided 
under this heading shall be awarded within 180 days of enactment of 
this Act:  Provided further, That funds shall be used for providing 
counseling and advice to tenants and homeowners, both current and 
prospective, with respect to property maintenance, financial 
management/literacy, and such other matters as may be appropriate to 
assist them in improving their housing conditions, meeting their 
financial needs, and fulfilling the responsibilities of tenancy or 
homeownership; for program administration; and for housing counselor 
training:  Provided further, That for purposes of providing such grants 
from amounts provided under this heading, the Secretary may enter into 
multiyear agreements as appropriate, subject to the availability of 
annual appropriations.

                       rental housing assistance

    For amendments to contracts under section 101 of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) and section 236(f)(2) 
of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) in State-aided, 
noninsured rental housing projects, $30,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such amount, together with unobligated 
balances from recaptured amounts appropriated prior to fiscal year 2006 
from terminated contracts under such sections of law, and any 
unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated under this heading after fiscal year 2005, 
shall also be available for extensions of up to one year for expiring 
contracts under such sections of law.

                 manufactured housing standards program

            payment to manufactured housing fees trust fund

    For necessary expenses as authorized by the National Manufactured 
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401 
et seq.), up to $10,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $10,000,000 is to be derived from the Manufactured Housing Fees 
Trust Fund:  Provided, That not to exceed the total amount appropriated 
under this heading shall be available from the general fund of the 
Treasury to the extent necessary to incur obligations and make 
expenditures pending the receipt of collections to the Fund pursuant to 
section 620 of such Act:  Provided further, That the amount made 
available under this heading from the general fund shall be reduced as 
such collections are received during fiscal year 2016 so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 2016 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at zero, and fees pursuant to such section 620 shall be 
modified as necessary to ensure such a final fiscal year 2016 
appropriation:  Provided further, That for the dispute resolution and 
installation programs, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
may assess and collect fees from any program participant:  Provided 
further, That such collections shall be deposited into the Fund, and 
the Secretary, as provided herein, may use such collections, as well as 
fees collected under section 620, for necessary expenses of such Act:  
Provided further, That, notwithstanding the requirements of section 620 
of such Act, the Secretary may carry out responsibilities of the 
Secretary under such Act through the use of approved service providers 
that are paid directly by the recipients of their services.

                     Federal Housing Administration

               mutual mortgage insurance program account

    New commitments to guarantee single family loans insured under the 
Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund shall not exceed $400,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That during 
fiscal year 2016, obligations to make direct loans to carry out the 
purposes of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as amended, 
shall not exceed $5,000,000:  Provided further, That the foregoing 
amount in the previous proviso shall be for loans to nonprofit and 
governmental entities in connection with sales of single family real 
properties owned by the Secretary and formerly insured under the Mutual 
Mortgage Insurance Fund:  Provided further, That for administrative 
contract expenses of the Federal Housing Administration, $130,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That 
to the extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed $200,000,000,000 on or 
before April 1, 2016, an additional $1,400 for administrative contract 
expenses shall be available for each $1,000,000 in additional 
guaranteed loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount 
below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this 
proviso exceed $30,000,000.

                general and special risk program account

    New commitments to guarantee loans insured under the General and 
Special Risk Insurance Funds, as authorized by sections 238 and 519 of 
the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), shall not 
exceed $30,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any part of which is to 
be guaranteed, to remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, 
That during fiscal year 2016, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238, 
and 519(a) of the National Housing Act, shall not exceed $5,000,000, 
which shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with the sale of single family real properties owned by the 
Secretary and formerly insured under such Act.

                Government National Mortgage Association

guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

    New commitments to issue guarantees to carry out the purposes of 
section 306 of the National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 
1721(g)), shall not exceed $500,000,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That $23,000,000 shall be available for 
necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Government National 
Mortgage Association:  Provided further, That to the extent that 
guaranteed loan commitments exceed $155,000,000,000 on or before April 
1, 2016, an additional $100 for necessary salaries and expenses shall 
be available until expended for each $1,000,000 in additional 
guaranteed loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount 
below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this 
proviso exceed $3,000,000:  Provided further, That receipts from 
Commitment and Multiclass fees collected pursuant to title III of the 
National Housing Act, as amended, shall be credited as offsetting 
collections to this account.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        research and technology

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), including 
carrying out the functions of the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development under section 1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1968, $50,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.
    Of the amounts made available in this title under each of the 
headings specified in the report accompanying this Act, the Secretary 
may transfer to this account up to 0.1 percent from each such account, 
and such transferred amounts shall be available until September 30, 
2017, for (1) technical assistance and capacity building; and (2) 
research, evaluation, and program metrics:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may not transfer more than $40,000,000 to this account.
    With respect to amounts made available under this heading, 
notwithstanding section 204 of this title, the Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements funded with philanthropic entities, other 
Federal agencies, or State or local governments and their agencies for 
research projects:  Provided, That any such partners to any such 
cooperative agreements must contribute at least 50 percent of the cost 
of the project:  Provided further, That for any such cooperative 
agreements, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall comply 
with section 2(b) of the Federal Funding Accountability and 
Transparency Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-282, 31 U.S.C. note) in lieu 
of compliance with section 102(a)(4)(C) with respect to documentation 
of award decisions.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$65,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, of which 
$38,600,000 shall be to carry out activities pursuant to such section 
561:  Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary may 
assess and collect fees to cover the costs of the Fair Housing Training 
Academy, and may use such funds to provide such training:  Provided 
further, That no funds made available under this heading shall be used 
to lobby the executive or legislative branches of the Federal 
Government in connection with a specific contract, grant, or loan:  
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$300,000 shall be available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development for the creation and promotion of translated materials and 
other programs that support the assistance of persons with limited 
English proficiency in utilizing the services provided by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development.

            Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes

                         lead hazard reduction

    For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, as authorized by section 
1011 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992, 
$110,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, of which 
$25,000,000 shall be for the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursuant to 
sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 
that shall include research, studies, testing, and demonstration 
efforts, including education and outreach concerning lead-based paint 
poisoning and other housing-related diseases and hazards:  Provided, 
That for purposes of environmental review, pursuant to the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other 
provisions of the law that further the purposes of such Act, a grant 
under the Healthy Homes Initiative, or the Lead Technical Studies 
program under this heading or under prior appropriations Acts for such 
purposes under this heading, shall be considered to be funds for a 
special project for purposes of section 305(c) of the Multifamily 
Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994:  Provided further, 
That of the total amount made available under this heading, $45,000,000 
shall be made available on a competitive basis for areas with the 
highest lead paint abatement needs:  Provided further, That each 
recipient of funds provided under the previous proviso shall contribute 
an amount not less than 25 percent of the total:  Provided further, 
That each applicant shall certify adequate capacity that is acceptable 
to the Secretary to carry out the proposed use of funds pursuant to a 
notice of funding availability:  Provided further, That amounts made 
available under this heading in this or prior appropriations Acts, and 
that still remain available, may be used for any purpose under this 
heading notwithstanding the purpose for which such amounts were 
appropriated if a program competition is undersubscribed and there are 
other program competitions under this heading that are oversubscribed.

                      Information Technology Fund

    For the development of, modifications to, and infrastructure for 
Department-wide and program-specific information technology systems, 
for the continuing operation and maintenance of both Department-wide 
and program-specific information systems, and for program-related 
maintenance activities, $250,000,000, shall remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That any amounts transferred to this 
Fund under this Act shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That any amounts transferred to this Fund from amounts 
appropriated by previously enacted appropriations Acts may be used for 
the purposes specified under this Fund, in addition to any other 
information technology purposes for which such amounts were 
appropriated.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector 
General in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$126,000,000:  Provided, That the Inspector General shall have 
independent authority over all personnel issues within this office.

    General Provisions--Department of Housing and Urban Development

                     (including transfer of funds)

                        (including rescissions)

    Sec. 201.  Fifty percent of the amounts of budget authority, or in 
lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts associated with such budget 
authority, that are recaptured from projects described in section 
1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act 
of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437 note) shall be rescinded or in the case of 
cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget 
authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the 
Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies or local 
governments or local housing agencies with projects approved by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for which settlement 
occurred after January 1, 1992, in accordance with such section. 
Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Secretary may award up to 15 
percent of the budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or 
remitted to the Treasury to provide project owners with incentives to 
refinance their project at a lower interest rate.
    Sec. 202.  None of the funds made available under this title may be 
used during fiscal year 2016 to investigate or prosecute under the Fair 
Housing Act any otherwise lawful activity engaged in by one or more 
persons, including the filing or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal 
action, that is engaged in solely for the purpose of achieving or 
preventing action by a Government official or entity, or a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 203. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
amount allocated for fiscal year 2016 under section 854(c) of the AIDS 
Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)), to the city of New York, 
New York, on behalf of the New York-Wayne-White Plains, New York-New 
Jersey Metropolitan Division (hereafter ``metropolitan division'') of 
the New York-Newark-Edison, NY-NJ-PA Metropolitan Statistical Area, 
shall be adjusted by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development by:
            (1) allocating to the city of Jersey City, New Jersey, the 
        proportion of the metropolitan area's or division's amount that 
        is based on the number of persons living with HIV, poverty and 
        fair market rents, in the portion of the metropolitan area or 
        division that is located in Hudson County, New Jersey; and
            (2) allocating to the city of Paterson, New Jersey, the 
        proportion of the metropolitan area's or division's amount that 
        is based on the number of persons living with HIV, poverty and 
        fair market rents, in the portion of the metropolitan area or 
        division that is located in Bergen County and Passaic County, 
        New Jersey. The recipient cities shall use amounts allocated 
        under this subsection to carry out eligible activities under 
        section 855 of the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
        12904) in their respective portions of the metropolitan 
        division that is located in New Jersey.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amount 
allocated for fiscal year 2016 under section 854(c) of the AIDS Housing 
Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)), to the city of Wilmington, 
Delaware, on behalf of the Wilmington, Delaware-Maryland-New Jersey 
Metropolitan Division (hereafter ``metropolitan division''), shall be 
adjusted by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development by 
allocating to the State of New Jersey the proportion of the 
metropolitan division's amount that is based on the number of persons 
living with HIV, poverty and fair market rents, in the portion of the 
metropolitan division that is located in New Jersey. The State of New 
Jersey shall use amounts allocated to the State under this subsection 
to carry out eligible activities under section 855 of the AIDS Housing 
Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 12904) in the portion of the metropolitan 
division that is located in New Jersey.
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Housing and Urban Development shall allocate to Wake County, North 
Carolina, the amounts that otherwise would be allocated for fiscal year 
2016 under section 854(c) of the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 
U.S.C. 12903(c)) to the city of Raleigh, North Carolina, on behalf of 
the Raleigh-Cary North Carolina Metropolitan Statistical Area. Any 
amounts allocated to Wake County shall be used to carry out eligible 
activities under section 855 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12904) within such 
metropolitan statistical area.
    (d) Notwithstanding section 854(c) of the AIDS Housing Opportunity 
Act (42 U.S.C. 12903(c)), the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may adjust the allocation of the amounts that otherwise 
would be allocated for fiscal year 2016 under section 854(c) of such 
Act, upon the written request of an applicant, in conjunction with the 
State(s), for a formula allocation on behalf of a metropolitan 
statistical area, to designate the State or States in which the 
metropolitan statistical area is located as the eligible grantee(s) of 
the allocation. In the case that a metropolitan statistical area 
involves more than one State, such amounts allocated to each State 
shall be based on the proportion of the metropolitan statistical area's 
amount that is based on the number of persons living with HIV, poverty 
and fair market rents, in the portion of the metropolitan statistical 
area that is located in that State. Any amounts allocated to a State 
under this section shall be used to carry out eligible activities 
within the portion of the metropolitan statistical area located in that 
State.
    Sec. 204.  Except as explicitly provided in law, any grant, 
cooperative agreement or other assistance made pursuant to title II of 
this Act shall be made on a competitive basis and in accordance with 
section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform 
Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
    Sec. 205.  Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a 
contract or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for 
services and facilities of the Federal National Mortgage Association, 
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any 
member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within 
the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1).
    Sec. 206.  Unless otherwise provided for in this title or through a 
reprogramming of funds, no part of any appropriation for the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development shall be available for any program, 
project or activity in excess of amounts set forth in the budget 
estimates submitted to Congress.
    Sec. 207.  Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development which are subject to the Government Corporation 
Control Act are hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within the 
limits of funds and borrowing authority available to each such 
corporation or agency and in accordance with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of such Act as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the budget for fiscal year 2016 for such 
corporation or agency except as hereinafter provided:  Provided, That 
collections of these corporations and agencies may be used for new loan 
or mortgage purchase commitments only to the extent expressly provided 
for in this Act (unless such loans are in support of other forms of 
assistance provided for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except 
that this proviso shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty 
operations of these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases 
are necessary to protect the financial interest of the United States 
Government.
    Sec. 208.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
provide quarterly reports to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations regarding all uncommitted, unobligated, recaptured and 
excess funds in each program and activity within the jurisdiction of 
the Department and shall submit additional, updated budget information 
to these Committees upon request.
    Sec. 209.  A public housing agency or such other entity that 
administers Federal housing assistance for the Housing Authority of the 
county of Los Angeles, California, and the States of Alaska, Iowa, and 
Mississippi shall not be required to include a resident of public 
housing or a recipient of assistance provided under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 on the board of directors or a 
similar governing board of such agency or entity as required under 
section (2)(b) of such Act. Each public housing agency or other entity 
that administers Federal housing assistance under section 8 for the 
Housing Authority of the county of Los Angeles, California and the 
States of Alaska, Iowa and Mississippi that chooses not to include a 
resident of public housing or a recipient of section 8 assistance on 
the board of directors or a similar governing board shall establish an 
advisory board of not less than six residents of public housing or 
recipients of section 8 assistance to provide advice and comment to the 
public housing agency or other administering entity on issues related 
to public housing and section 8. Such advisory board shall meet not 
less than quarterly.
    Sec. 210.  No funds provided under this title may be used for an 
audit of the Government National Mortgage Association that makes 
applicable requirements under the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 
U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
    Sec. 211. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, subject 
to the conditions listed under this section, for fiscal years 2016 and 
2017, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may authorize the 
transfer of some or all project-based assistance, debt held or insured 
by the Secretary and statutorily required low-income and very low-
income use restrictions if any, associated with one or more multifamily 
housing project or projects to another multifamily housing project or 
projects.
    (b) Phased Transfers.--Transfers of project-based assistance under 
this section may be done in phases to accommodate the financing and 
other requirements related to rehabilitating or constructing the 
project or projects to which the assistance is transferred, to ensure 
that such project or projects meet the standards under subsection (c).
    (c) The transfer authorized in subsection (a) is subject to the 
following conditions:
            (1) Number and bedroom size of units.--
                    (A) For occupied units in the transferring project: 
                The number of low-income and very low-income units and 
                the configuration (i.e., bedroom size) provided by the 
                transferring project shall be no less than when 
                transferred to the receiving project or projects and 
                the net dollar amount of Federal assistance provided to 
                the transferring project shall remain the same in the 
                receiving project or projects.
                    (B) For unoccupied units in the transferring 
                project: The Secretary may authorize a reduction in the 
                number of dwelling units in the receiving project or 
                projects to allow for a reconfiguration of bedroom 
                sizes to meet current market demands, as determined by 
                the Secretary and provided there is no increase in the 
                project-based assistance budget authority.
            (2) The transferring project shall, as determined by the 
        Secretary, be either physically obsolete or economically 
        nonviable.
            (3) The receiving project or projects shall meet or exceed 
        applicable physical standards established by the Secretary.
            (4) The owner or mortgagor of the transferring project 
        shall notify and consult with the tenants residing in the 
        transferring project and provide a certification of approval by 
        all appropriate local governmental officials.
            (5) The tenants of the transferring project who remain 
        eligible for assistance to be provided by the receiving project 
        or projects shall not be required to vacate their units in the 
        transferring project or projects until new units in the 
        receiving project are available for occupancy.
            (6) The Secretary determines that this transfer is in the 
        best interest of the tenants.
            (7) If either the transferring project or the receiving 
        project or projects meets the condition specified in subsection 
        (d)(2)(A), any lien on the receiving project resulting from 
        additional financing obtained by the owner shall be subordinate 
        to any FHA-insured mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on, 
        such project by the Secretary, except that the Secretary may 
        waive this requirement upon determination that such a waiver is 
        necessary to facilitate the financing of acquisition, 
        construction, and/or rehabilitation of the receiving project or 
        projects.
            (8) If the transferring project meets the requirements of 
        subsection (d)(2), the owner or mortgagor of the receiving 
        project or projects shall execute and record either a 
        continuation of the existing use agreement or a new use 
        agreement for the project where, in either case, any use 
        restrictions in such agreement are of no lesser duration than 
        the existing use restrictions.
            (9) The transfer does not increase the cost (as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
        amended) of any FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent that 
        appropriations are provided in advance for the amount of any 
        such increased cost.
    (d) For purposes of this section--
            (1) the terms ``low-income'' and ``very low-income'' shall 
        have the meanings provided by the statute and/or regulations 
        governing the program under which the project is insured or 
        assisted;
            (2) the term ``multifamily housing project'' means housing 
        that meets one of the following conditions--
                    (A) housing that is subject to a mortgage insured 
                under the National Housing Act;
                    (B) housing that has project-based assistance 
                attached to the structure including projects undergoing 
                mark to market debt restructuring under the Multifamily 
                Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Housing Act;
                    (C) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959, as amended by section 801 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act;
                    (D) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959, as such section existed before 
                the enactment of the Cranston-Gonzales National 
                Affordable Housing Act;
                    (E) housing that is assisted under section 811 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act; 
                or
                    (F) housing or vacant land that is subject to a use 
                agreement;
            (3) the term ``project-based assistance'' means--
                    (A) assistance provided under section 8(b) of the 
                United States Housing Act of 1937;
                    (B) assistance for housing constructed or 
                substantially rehabilitated pursuant to assistance 
                provided under section 8(b)(2) of such Act (as such 
                section existed immediately before October 1, 1983);
                    (C) rent supplement payments under section 101 of 
                the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965;
                    (D) interest reduction payments under section 236 
                and/or additional assistance payments under section 
                236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act;
                    (E) assistance payments made under section 
                202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959; and
                    (F) assistance payments made under section 
                811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
                Housing Act;
            (4) the term ``receiving project or projects'' means the 
        multifamily housing project or projects to which some or all of 
        the project-based assistance, debt, and statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions are to be 
        transferred;
            (5) the term ``transferring project'' means the multifamily 
        housing project which is transferring some or all of the 
        project-based assistance, debt, and the statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions to the 
        receiving project or projects; and
            (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Housing 
        and Urban Development.
    (e) Public Notice and Research Report.--
            (1) The Secretary shall publish by notice in the Federal 
        Register the terms and conditions, including criteria for HUD 
        approval, of transfers pursuant to this section no later than 
        30 days before the effective date of such notice.
            (2) The Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        transfer authority under this section, including the effect of 
        such transfers on the operational efficiency, contract rents, 
        physical and financial conditions, and long-term preservation 
        of the affected properties.
    Sec. 212. (a) No assistance shall be provided under section 8 of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to any 
individual who--
            (1) is enrolled as a student at an institution of higher 
        education (as defined under section 102 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
            (2) is under 24 years of age;
            (3) is not a veteran;
            (4) is unmarried;
            (5) does not have a dependent child;
            (6) is not a person with disabilities, as such term is 
        defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the United States Housing Act 
        of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving 
        assistance under such section 8 as of November 30, 2005; and
            (7) is not otherwise individually eligible, or has parents 
        who, individually or jointly, are not eligible, to receive 
        assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
        1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
    (b) For purposes of determining the eligibility of a person to 
receive assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial assistance (in excess of amounts 
received for tuition and any other required fees and charges) that an 
individual receives under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1001 et seq.), from private sources, or an institution of higher 
education (as defined under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1002)), shall be considered income to that individual, except for a 
person over the age of 23 with dependent children.
    Sec. 213.  The funds made available under NAHASDA for Native 
Alaskans under the heading ``Indian Block Grants'' in title II of this 
Act shall be allocated to the same Native Alaskan housing block grant 
recipients that received funds in fiscal year 2005.
    Sec. 214.  Notwithstanding the limitation in the first sentence of 
section 255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)), the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may, until September 30, 
2016, insure and enter into commitments to insure mortgages under such 
section 255.
    Sec. 215.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal 
year 2016, in managing and disposing of any multifamily property that 
is owned or has a mortgage held by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development, and during the process of foreclosure on any property with 
a contract for rental assistance payments under section 8 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 or other Federal programs, the Secretary 
shall maintain any rental assistance payments under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 and other programs that are attached 
to any dwelling units in the property. To the extent the Secretary 
determines, in consultation with the tenants and the local government, 
that such a multifamily property owned or held by the Secretary is not 
feasible for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 
or other programs, based on consideration of (1) the costs of 
rehabilitating and operating the property and all available Federal, 
State, and local resources, including rent adjustments under section 
524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
1997 (``MAHRAA'') and (2) environmental conditions that cannot be 
remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may, in 
consultation with the tenants of that property, contract for project-
based rental assistance payments with an owner or owners of other 
existing housing properties, or provide other rental assistance. The 
Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that project-
based contracts remain in effect prior to foreclosure, subject to the 
exercise of contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of 
tenants for imminent major threats to health and safety after written 
notice to and informed consent of the affected tenants and use of other 
available remedies, such as partial abatements or receivership. After 
disposition of any multifamily property described under this section, 
the contract and allowable rent levels on such properties shall be 
subject to the requirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.
    Sec. 216.  The commitment authority funded by fees as provided 
under the heading ``Community Development Loan Guarantees Program 
Account'' may be used to guarantee, or make commitments to guarantee, 
notes, or other obligations issued by any State on behalf of non-
entitlement communities in the State in accordance with the 
requirements of section 108 of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1974:  Provided, That any State receiving such a guarantee or 
commitment shall distribute all funds subject to such guarantee to the 
units of general local government in non-entitlement areas that 
received the commitment.
    Sec. 217.  Public housing agencies that own and operate 400 or 
fewer public housing units may elect to be exempt from any asset 
management requirement imposed by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development in connection with the operating fund rule:  Provided, That 
an agency seeking a discontinuance of a reduction of subsidy under the 
operating fund formula shall not be exempt from asset management 
requirements.
    Sec. 218.  With respect to the use of amounts provided in this Act 
and in future Acts for the operation, capital improvement and 
management of public housing as authorized by sections 9(d) and 9(e) of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(d) and (e)), the 
Secretary shall not impose any requirement or guideline relating to 
asset management that restricts or limits in any way the use of capital 
funds for central office costs pursuant to section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2) 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)):  
Provided, That a public housing agency may not use capital funds 
authorized under section 9(d) for activities that are eligible under 
section 9(e) for assistance with amounts from the operating fund in 
excess of the amounts permitted under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
    Sec. 219.  No official or employee of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development shall be designated as an allotment holder unless the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer has determined that such 
allotment holder has implemented an adequate system of funds control 
and has received training in funds control procedures and directives. 
The Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that there is a trained 
allotment holder for each HUD sub-office under the accounts ``Executive 
Offices'' and ``Administrative Support Offices,'' as well as each 
account receiving appropriations for ``Program Office Salaries and 
Expenses'', ``Government National Mortgage Association--Guarantees of 
Mortgage-Backed Securities Loan Guarantee Program Account'', and 
``Office of Inspector General'' within the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development.
    Sec. 220.  The Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development shall, for fiscal year 2016 and subsequent fiscal years, 
notify the public through the Federal Register and other means, as 
determined appropriate, of the issuance of a notice of the availability 
of assistance or notice of funding availability (NOFA) for any program 
or discretionary fund administered by the Secretary that is to be 
competitively awarded. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
fiscal year 2016 and subsequent fiscal years, the Secretary may make 
the NOFA available only on the Internet at the appropriate Government 
Web site or through other electronic media, as determined by the 
Secretary.
    Sec. 221.  Payment of attorney fees in program-related litigation 
shall be paid from the individual program office and Office of General 
Counsel salaries and expenses appropriations. The annual budget 
submission for the program offices and the Office of General Counsel 
shall include any such projected litigation costs for attorney fees as 
a separate line item request. No funds provided in this title may be 
used to pay any such litigation costs for attorney fees until the 
Department submits for review and approval a spending plan for such 
costs to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 222.  The Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development is authorized to transfer up to 5 percent or $5,000,000, 
whichever is less, of the funds appropriated for any office funded 
under the heading ``Administrative Support Offices'' to any other 
office funded under such heading:  Provided, That no appropriation for 
any office funded under the heading ``Administrative Support Offices'' 
shall be increased or decreased by more than 5 percent or $5,000,000, 
whichever is less, without prior written approval of the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary is authorized to transfer up to 5 percent or $5,000,000, 
whichever is less, of the funds appropriated for any account funded 
under the general heading ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' to 
any other account funded under such heading:  Provided further, That no 
appropriation for any account funded under the general heading 
``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' shall be increased or 
decreased by more than 5 percent or $5,000,000, whichever is less, 
without prior written approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations:  Provided further, That the Secretary may transfer 
funds made available for salaries and expenses between any office 
funded under the heading ``Administrative Support Offices'' and any 
account funded under the general heading ``Program Office Salaries and 
Expenses'', but only with the prior written approval of the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 223.  The Disaster Housing Assistance Programs, administered 
by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, shall be considered 
a ``program of the Department of Housing and Urban Development'' under 
section 904 of the McKinney Act for the purpose of income verifications 
and matching.
    Sec. 224. (a) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
take the required actions under subsection (b) when a multifamily 
housing project with a section 8 contract or contract for similar 
project-based assistance:
            (1) receives a Real Estate Assessment Center (REAC) score 
        of 30 or less; or
            (2) receives a REAC score between 31 and 59 and:
                    (A) fails to certify in writing to HUD within 60 
                days that all deficiencies have been corrected; or
                    (B) receives consecutive scores of less than 60 on 
                REAC inspections.
Such requirements shall apply to insured and noninsured projects with 
assistance attached to the units under section 8 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), but do not apply to such units 
assisted under section 8(o)(13) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) or to public 
housing units assisted with capital or operating funds under section 9 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g).
    (b) The Secretary shall take the following required actions as 
authorized under subsection (a)--
            (1) The Secretary shall notify the owner and provide an 
        opportunity for response within 30 days. If the violations 
        remain, the Secretary shall develop a Compliance, Disposition 
        and Enforcement Plan within 60 days, with a specified timetable 
        for correcting all deficiencies. The Secretary shall provide 
        notice of the Plan to the owner, tenants, the local government, 
        any mortgagees, and any contract administrator.
            (2) At the end of the term of the Compliance, Disposition 
        and Enforcement Plan, if the owner fails to fully comply with 
        such plan, the Secretary may require immediate replacement of 
        project management with a management agent approved by the 
        Secretary, and shall take one or more of the following actions, 
        and provide additional notice of those actions to the owner and 
        the parties specified above:
                    (A) impose civil money penalties;
                    (B) abate the section 8 contract, including partial 
                abatement, as determined by the Secretary, until all 
                deficiencies have been corrected;
                    (C) pursue transfer of the project to an owner, 
                approved by the Secretary under established procedures, 
                which will be obligated to promptly make all required 
                repairs and to accept renewal of the assistance 
                contract as long as such renewal is offered; or
                    (D) seek judicial appointment of a receiver to 
                manage the property and cure all project deficiencies 
                or seek a judicial order of specific performance 
                requiring the owner to cure all project deficiencies.
    (c) The Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that 
project-based contracts remain in effect, subject to the exercise of 
contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of tenants for 
imminent major threats to health and safety after written notice to and 
informed consent of the affected tenants and use of other remedies set 
forth above. To the extent the Secretary determines, in consultation 
with the tenants and the local government, that the property is not 
feasible for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 
or other programs, based on consideration of (1) the costs of 
rehabilitating and operating the property and all available Federal, 
State, and local resources, including rent adjustments under section 
524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
1997 (``MAHRAA'') and (2) environmental conditions that cannot be 
remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may, in 
consultation with the tenants of that property, contract for project-
based rental assistance payments with an owner or owners of other 
existing housing properties, or provide other rental assistance. The 
Secretary shall report semi-annually on all properties covered by this 
section that are assessed through the Real Estate Assessment Center and 
have physical inspection scores of less than 30 or have consecutive 
physical inspection scores of less than 60. The report shall include:
            (1) The enforcement actions being taken to address such 
        conditions, including imposition of civil money penalties and 
        termination of subsidies, and identify properties that have 
        such conditions multiple times; and
            (2) Actions that the Department of Housing and Urban 
        Development is taking to protect tenants of such identified 
        properties.
    Sec. 225.  None of the funds made available by this Act, or any 
other Act, for purposes authorized under section 8 (only with respect 
to the tenant-based rental assistance program) and section 9 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.), may be used 
by any public housing agency for any amount of salary, including 
bonuses, for the chief executive officer of which, or any other 
official or employee of which, that exceeds the annual rate of basic 
pay payable for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule at any 
time during any public housing agency fiscal year 2016.
    Sec. 226.  None of the funds in this Act may be available for the 
doctoral dissertation research grant program at the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development.
    Sec. 227.  Section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437v) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (m)(1), by striking ``fiscal year'' and 
        all that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
        ``fiscal year 2016.''; and
            (2) in subsection (o), by striking ``September'' and all 
        that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
        ``September 30, 2016.''.
    Sec. 228.  None of the funds in this Act provided to the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development may be used to make a grant award 
unless the Secretary notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations not less than 3 full business days before any project, 
State, locality, housing authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or 
other entity selected to receive a grant award is announced by the 
Department or its offices.
    Sec. 229.  Of the amounts made available for salaries and expenses 
under all accounts under this title (except for the Office of Inspector 
General account), a total of up to $5,000,000 may be transferred to and 
merged with amounts made available in the ``Information Technology 
Fund'' account under this title.
    Sec. 230.  None of the funds made available by this Act nor any 
receipts or amounts collected under any Federal Housing Administration 
program may be used to implement the Homeowners Armed with Knowledge 
(HAWK) program.
    Sec. 231.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used by the Federal Housing Administration, the Government National 
Mortgage Administration, or the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development to insure, securitize, or establish a Federal guarantee of 
any mortgage or mortgage backed security that refinances or otherwise 
replaces a mortgage that has been subject to eminent domain 
condemnation or seizure, by a State, municipality, or any other 
political subdivision of a State.
    Sec. 232.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to terminate the status of a unit of general local government as a 
metropolitan city (as defined in section 102 of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) with respect to 
grants under section 106 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306).
    Sec. 233.  Subsection (b) of section 225 of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12755) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new sentence: ``Such 30-day waiting period is 
not required if the grounds for the termination or refusal to renew 
involve a direct threat to the safety of the tenants or employees of 
the housing, or an imminent and serious threat to the property (and the 
termination or refusal to renew is in accordance with the requirements 
of State or local law).''.
    Sec. 234.  None of the funds under this title may be used for 
awards, including performance, special act, or spot, for any employee 
of the Department of Housing and Urban Development who is subject to 
administrative discipline in fiscal year 2016, including suspension 
from work.
    Sec. 235.  The language under the heading ``Rental Assistance 
Demonstration'' in the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-55) is amended:
            (1) in proviso four, by striking ``185,000'' and inserting 
        ``200,000'';
            (2) in proviso eighteen, by inserting ``for fiscal year 
        2012 and hereafter,'' after ``Provided further, That''; and
            (3) In proviso nineteen, by striking ``, which may extend 
        beyond fiscal year 2016 as necessary to allow processing of all 
        timely applications,''.
    Sec. 236.  Section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437g) is amended by--
            (1) inserting at the end of subsection (j)--
            ``(7) Treatment of replacement reserve.--The requirements 
        of this subsection shall not apply to funds held in replacement 
        reserves established in subsection (9)(n).''; and
            (2) inserting at the end of subsection (m)--
    ``(n) Establishment of Replacement Reserves.--
            ``(1) In general.--Public Housing authorities shall be 
        permitted to establish a Replacement Reserve to fund any of the 
        capital activities listed in subparagraph (d)(1).
            ``(2) Source and amount of funds for replacement reserve.--
        At any time, a public housing authority may deposit funds from 
        that agency's Capital Fund into a replacement reserve subject 
        to the following:
                    ``(A) At the discretion of the Secretary, public 
                housing agencies may transfer and hold in a Replacement 
                Reserve, funds originating from additional sources.
                    ``(B) No minimum transfer of funds to a replacement 
                reserve shall be required.
                    ``(C) At any time, a public housing authority may 
                not hold in a replacement reserve more than the amount 
                the public housing authority has determined necessary 
                to satisfy the anticipated capital needs of properties 
                in its portfolio assisted under 42 U.S.C. 1437g as 
                outlined in its Capital Fund 5 Year Action Plan, or a 
                comparable plan, as determined by the Secretary.
                    ``(D) The Secretary may establish by regulation a 
                maximum replacement reserve level or levels that are 
                below amounts determined under subparagraph (C), which 
                may be based upon the size of the portfolio assisted 
                under 42 U.S.C. 1437g or other factors.
            ``(3) In first establishing a replacement reserve, the 
        Secretary may allow public housing agencies to transfer more 
        than 20 percent of its operating funds into its replacement 
        reserve.
            ``(4) Expenditure.--Funds in a replacement reserve may be 
        used for purposes authorized by subparagraph (d)(1) and 
        contained in its Capital Fund 5 Year Action Plan.
            ``(5) Management and report.--The Secretary shall establish 
        appropriate accounting and reporting requirements to ensure 
        that public housing agencies are spending funds on eligible 
        projects and that funds in the replacement reserve are 
        connected to capital needs.''.
    Sec. 237.  Section 9(g)(1) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)) is amended by--
            (1) inserting ``(A)'' immediately after the paragraph 
        designation;
            (2) by striking the period and inserting the following at 
        the end: ``; and''; and
            (3) inserting the following new paragraph:
                    ``(B) Flexibility for operating fund amounts.--Of 
                any amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2016 or any 
                fiscal year thereafter that are allocated for fiscal 
                year 2016 or any fiscal year thereafter from the 
                Operating Fund for any public housing agency, the 
                agency may use not more than 20 percent for activities 
                that are eligible under subsection (d) for assistance 
                with amounts from the Capital Fund, but only if the 
                public housing plan for the agency provides for such 
                use.''.
    Sec. 238.  Section 526 (12 U.S.C. 1735f-4) of the National Housing 
Act is amended by inserting at the end of subsection (b)--
    ``(c) The Secretary may establish an exception to any minimum 
property standard established under this section in order to address 
alternative water systems, including cisterns, which meet requirements 
of State and local building codes that ensure health and safety 
standards.''.
    Sec. 239.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
increase, pursuant to this section, the number of Moving-to-Work 
agencies authorized under section 204, title II, of the Departments of 
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public Law 104-134; 110 Stat. 1321) 
by adding to the program 300 public housing agencies that are 
designated as high performing agencies under the Public Housing 
Assessment System (PHAS). No public housing agency shall be granted 
this designation through this section that administers in excess of 
22,000 aggregate housing vouchers and public housing units. Of the 
agencies selected under this section, no less than 150 shall administer 
600 or fewer aggregate housing voucher and public housing units, no 
less than 125 shall administer 601-5,000 aggregate housing voucher and 
public housing units, and no more than 20 shall administer 5,001-22,000 
aggregate housing voucher and public housing units. Of the 300 agencies 
selected under this section, five shall be agencies with portfolio 
awards under the Rental Assistance Demonstration that meet the other 
requirements of this section. Selection of agencies under this section 
shall be based on ensuring the geographic diversity of Moving-to-Work 
agencies. The Secretary may, at the request of a Moving-to-Work agency 
and one or more adjacent public housing agencies in the same area, 
designate that Moving-to-Work agency as a regional agency. A regional 
Moving-to-Work agency may administer the assistance under sections 8 
and 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f and g) 
for the participating agencies within its region pursuant to the terms 
of its Moving-to-Work agreement with the Secretary. The Secretary may 
agree to extend the term of the agreement and to make any necessary 
changes to accommodate regionalization. A Moving-to-Work agency may be 
selected as a regional agency if the Secretary determines that unified 
administration of assistance under sections 8 and 9 by that agency 
across multiple jurisdictions will lead to efficiencies and to greater 
housing choice for low-income persons in the region. For purposes of 
this expansion, in addition to the provisions of the Act retained in 
section 204, section 8(r)(1) of the Act shall continue to apply unless 
the Secretary determines that waiver of this section is necessary to 
implement comprehensive rent reform and occupancy policies subject to 
evaluation by the Secretary, and the waiver contains, at a minimum, 
exceptions for requests to port due to employment, education, health 
and safety. No public housing agency granted this designation through 
this section shall receive more funding under sections 8 or 9 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 than it otherwise would have received 
absent this designation. The Secretary shall extend the current Moving-
to-Work agreements of previously designated participating agencies 
until the end of each such agency's fiscal year 2028 under the same 
terms and conditions of such current agreements, except for any changes 
to such terms or conditions otherwise mutually agreed upon by the 
Secretary and any such agency and such extension agreements shall 
prohibit any statutory offset of any reserve balances equal to four 
months of operating expenses. Any such reserve balances that exceed 
such amount shall remain available to any such agency for all 
permissible purposes under such agreement unless subject to a statutory 
offset. In addition to other reporting requirements, all Moving-to-Work 
agencies shall report financial data to the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development as specified by the Secretary, so that the effect of 
Moving-to-Work policy changes can be measured.
    Sec. 240.  Section 3(a) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437a(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(6) Reviews of family income.--
                    ``(A) Frequency.--Reviews of family income for 
                purposes of this section shall be made--
                            ``(i) in the case of all families, upon the 
                        initial provision of housing assistance for the 
                        family; and
                            ``(ii) no less than annually thereafter, 
                        except as provided in subparagraph (B)(i);
                    ``(B) Fixed-income families.--
                            ``(i) Self certification and 3-year 
                        review.--In the case of any family described in 
                        clause (ii), after the initial review of the 
                        family's income pursuant to subparagraph 
                        (A)(i), the public housing agency or owner 
                        shall not be required to conduct a review of 
                        the family's income pursuant to subparagraph 
                        (A)(ii) for any year for which such family 
                        certifies, in accordance with such requirements 
                        as the Secretary shall establish, that the 
                        income of the family meets the requirements of 
                        clause (ii) of this subparagraph and that the 
                        sources of such income have not changed since 
                        the previous year, except that the public 
                        housing agency or owner shall conduct a review 
                        of each such family's income not less than once 
                        every 3 years.
                            ``(ii) Eligible families.--A family 
                        described in this clause is a family who has an 
                        income, as of the most recent review pursuant 
                        to subparagraph (A) or clause (i) of this 
                        subparagraph, of which 90 percent or more 
                        consists of fixed income, as such term is 
                        defined in clause (iii).
                            ``(iii) Fixed income.--For purposes of this 
                        subparagraph, the term `fixed income' includes 
                        income from--
                                    ``(I) the supplemental security 
                                income program under title XVI of the 
                                Social Security Act, including 
                                supplementary payments pursuant to an 
                                agreement for Federal administration 
                                under section 1616(a) of the Social 
                                Security Act and payments pursuant to 
                                an agreement entered into under section 
                                212(b) of Public Law 93-66;
                                    ``(II) Social Security payments;
                                    ``(III) Federal, State, local and 
                                private pension plans; and
                                    ``(IV) other periodic payments 
                                received from annuities, insurance 
                                policies, retirement funds, disability 
                                or death benefits, and other similar 
                                types of periodic receipts that are of 
                                substantially the same amounts from 
                                year to year.
                    ``(C) Inflationary adjustment for fixed income 
                families.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In any year in which a 
                        public housing agency or owner does not conduct 
                        a review of income for any family described in 
                        clause (ii) of subparagraph (B) pursuant to the 
                        authority under clause (i) of such paragraph to 
                        waive such a review, such family's prior year's 
                        income determination shall, subject to clauses 
                        (ii) and (iii), be adjusted by applying an 
                        inflationary factor as the Secretary shall, by 
                        regulation or notice, establish.
                            ``(ii) Exemption from adjustment.--A public 
                        housing agency or owner may exempt from an 
                        adjustment pursuant to clause (i) any income 
                        source for which income does not increase from 
                        year to year.''.
    Sec. 241.  Section 8(x)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 
(42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.), is amended by striking ``18 months'' and 
inserting ``36 months''.
    Sec. 242. (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall establish a demonstration program during the period 
beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, and ending on September 
30, 2020, entering into budget-neutral, performance-based agreements 
that result in a reduction in energy or water costs with such entities 
as the Secretary determines to be appropriate under which the entities 
shall carry out projects for energy or water conservation improvements 
at not more than 150,000 residential units in multifamily buildings 
participating in--
            (1) the Project-Based Rental Assistance program under 
        section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437f), other than assistance provided under section 8(o) of 
        that Act;
            (2) the supportive Housing for the Elderly program under 
        section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); or
            (3) the supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities 
        program under section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez 
        National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2)).
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) Payments contingent on savings.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall provide to an 
                entity a payment under an agreement under this section 
                only during applicable years for which an energy or 
                water cost savings is achieved with respect to the 
                applicable multifamily portfolio of properties, as 
                determined by the Secretary, in accordance with 
                subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Payment methodology.--
                            (i) In general.--Each agreement under this 
                        section shall include a pay-for-success 
                        provision--
                                    (I) that will serve as a payment 
                                threshold for the term of the 
                                agreement; and
                                    (II) pursuant to which the 
                                Department of Housing and Urban 
                                Development shall share a percentage of 
                                the savings at a level determined by 
                                the Secretary that is sufficient to 
                                cover the administrative costs of 
                                carrying out this section.
                            (ii) Limitations.--A payment made by the 
                        Secretary under an agreement under this section 
                        shall--
                                    (I) be contingent on documented 
                                utility savings; and
                                    (II) not exceed the utility savings 
                                achieved by the date of the payment, 
                                and not previously paid, as a result of 
                                the improvements made under the 
                                agreement.
                    (C) Third party verification.--Savings payments 
                made by the Secretary under this section shall be based 
                on a measurement and verification protocol that 
                includes at least--
                            (i) establishment of a weather-normalized 
                        and occupancy-normalized utility consumption 
                        baseline established preretrofit;
                            (ii) annual third party confirmation of 
                        actual utility consumption and cost for owner-
                        paid utilities;
                            (iii) annual third party validation of the 
                        tenant utility allowances in effect during the 
                        applicable year and vacancy rates for each unit 
                        type; and
                            (iv) annual third party determination of 
                        savings to the Secretary.
            (2) Term.--The term of an agreement under this section 
        shall be not longer than 12 years.
            (3) Entity eligibility.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) establish a competitive process for entering 
                into agreements under this section; and
                    (B) enter into such agreements only with entities 
                that demonstrate significant experience relating to--
                            (i) financing and operating properties 
                        receiving assistance under a program described 
                        in subsection (a);
                            (ii) oversight of energy and water 
                        conservation programs, including oversight of 
                        contractors; and
                            (iii) raising capital for energy and water 
                        conservation improvements from charitable 
                        organizations or private investors.
            (4) Geographical diversity.--Each agreement entered into 
        under this section shall provide for the inclusion of 
        properties with the greatest feasible regional and State 
        variance.
    (c) Plan and Reports.--
            (1) Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the House 
        and Senate Committees on Appropriations a detailed plan for the 
        implementation of this section.
            (2) Reports.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) conduct an evaluation of the program under this 
                section; and
                    (B) submit to the House and Senate Committees on 
                Appropriations a report describing each evaluation 
                conducted under subparagraph (A).
    (d) Funding.--For each fiscal year during which an agreement under 
this section is in effect, the Secretary may use to carry out this 
section any funds appropriated for the renewal of contracts under a 
program described in subsection (a).
    Sec. 243. (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development may establish, through notice in the Federal Register, a 
demonstration program to incent public housing agencies, as defined in 
section 3(b)(6) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (in this 
section referred to as ``the Act''), to implement measures to reduce 
their energy and water consumption.
    (b) Eligibility.--Public housing agencies that operate public 
housing programs that meet the demonstration requirements, as 
determined by the Secretary, shall be eligible for participation in the 
demonstration.
    (c) Incentive.--The Secretary may provide an incentive to an 
eligible public housing agency that uses capital funds, operating 
funds, grants, utility rebates, and other resources to reduce its 
energy and/or water consumption in accordance with a plan approved by 
the Secretary.
            (1) Base utility consumption level.--The initial base 
        utility consumption level under the approved plan shall be set 
        at the public housing agency's rolling base consumption level 
        immediately prior to the installation of energy conservation 
        measures.
            (2) First year utility cost savings.--For the first year 
        that an approved plan is in effect, the Secretary shall 
        allocate the utility consumption level in the public housing 
        operating fund using the base utility consumption level.
            (3) Subsequent year savings.--For each subsequent year that 
        the plan is in effect, the Secretary shall decrease the utility 
        consumption level by one percent of the initial base utility 
        consumption level per year until the utility consumption level 
        equals the public housing agency's actual consumption level 
        that followed the installation of energy conservation measures, 
        at which time the plan will terminate.
            (4) Use of utility cost savings.--The public housing agency 
        may use the funds resulting from the energy conservation 
        measures, in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3), for either 
        operating expenses, as defined by section 9(e)(1) of the Act, 
        or capital improvements, as defined by section 9(d)(1) of the 
        Act.
            (5) Duration of plan.--The length in years of the utility 
        conservation plan shall not exceed the number of percentage 
        points in utility consumption reduction a public housing agency 
        achieves through the energy conservation measures implemented 
        under this demonstration, but in no case shall it exceed 20 
        years.
            (6) Other requirements.--The Secretary may establish such 
        other requirements as necessary to further the purposes of this 
        demonstration.
            (7) Evaluation.--Each public housing agency participating 
        in the demonstration shall submit to the Secretary such 
        performance and evaluation reports concerning the reduction in 
        energy consumption and compliance with the requirements of this 
        section as the Secretary may require.
    (d) Termination.--Public housing agencies may enter into this 
demonstration for 5 years after the date on which the demonstration 
program is commenced.
    Sec. 244. (a) Authority.--Subject to the conditions in subsection 
(d), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may authorize, in 
response to requests received in fiscal years 2016 through 2020, the 
transfer of some or all project-based assistance, tenant-based 
assistance, capital advances, debt, and statutorily required use 
restrictions from housing assisted under section 811 of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013) to other new 
or existing housing, which may include projects, units, and other types 
of housing, as permitted by the Secretary.
    (b) Capital Advances.--Interest shall not be due and repayment of a 
capital advance shall not be triggered by a transfer pursuant to this 
section.
    (c) Phased and Proportional Transfers.--
            (1) Transfers under this section may be done in phases to 
        accommodate the financing and other requirements related to 
        rehabilitating or constructing the housing to which the 
        assistance is transferred, to ensure that such housing meets 
        the conditions under subsection (d).
            (2) The capital advance repayment requirements, use 
        restrictions, rental assistance, and debt shall transfer 
        proportionally from the transferring housing to the receiving 
        housing.
    (d) Conditions.--The transfers authorized by this section shall be 
subject to the following conditions:
            (1) the owner of the transferring housing shall demonstrate 
        that the transfer is in compliance with applicable Federal, 
        State, and local requirements regarding Housing for Persons 
        with Disabilities and shall provide the Secretary with evidence 
        of obtaining any approvals related to housing disabled persons 
        that are necessary under Federal, State, and local government 
        requirements;
            (2) the owner of the transferring housing shall demonstrate 
        to the Secretary that any transfer is in the best interest of 
        the disabled residents by offering opportunities for increased 
        integration or less concentration of individuals with 
        disabilities;
            (3) the owner of the transferring housing shall continue to 
        provide the same number of units as approved for rental 
        assistance by the Secretary in the receiving housing;
            (4) the owner of the transferring housing shall consult 
        with the disabled residents in the transferring housing about 
        any proposed transfer under this section and shall notify the 
        residents of the transferring housing who are eligible for 
        assistance to be provided in the receiving housing that they 
        shall not be required to vacate the transferring housing until 
        the receiving housing is available for occupancy;
            (5) the receiving housing shall meet or exceed applicable 
        physical standards established or adopted by the Secretary; and
            (6) if the receiving housing has a mortgage insured under 
        title II of the National Housing Act, any lien on the receiving 
        housing resulting from additional financing shall be 
        subordinate to any federally insured mortgage lien transferred 
        to, or placed on, such housing, except that the Secretary may 
        waive this requirement upon determination that such a waiver is 
        necessary to facilitate the financing of acquisition, 
        construction, or rehabilitation of the receiving housing.
    (e) Public Notice.--The Secretary shall publish a notice in the 
Federal Register of the terms and conditions, including criteria for 
the Department's approval of transfers pursuant to this section no 
later than 30 days before the effective date of such notice.
    Sec. 245. (a) Of the unobligated balances, including recaptures and 
carryover, remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development under the heading ``General and Special 
Risk Program Account'', and for the cost of guaranteed notes and other 
obligations under the heading ``Native American Housing Block Grants'', 
$12,000,000 is hereby rescinded.
    (b) All unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, 
remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development under the headings ``Rural Housing and Economic 
Development'', and ``Homeownership and Opportunity for People 
Everywhere Grants'' are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 246.  Funds made available in this title under the heading 
``Homeless Assistance Grants'' may be used to participate in 
Performance Partnership Pilots authorized under section 526 of division 
H of Public Law 113-76, section 524 of division G of Public Law 113-
235, and such authorities enacted for Performance Partnership Pilots in 
an appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016. Such participation shall be 
targeted to improving the housing situation of disconnected youth.
    Sec. 247.  Unobligated balances, including recaptures and 
carryover, remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development for administrative costs associated with 
funds appropriated to the Department for specific disaster relief and 
related purposes and designated by Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to a Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, including information 
technology costs and costs for administering and overseeing such 
specific disaster related funds, shall be transferred to the Program 
Office Salaries and Expenses, Community Planning and Development 
account for the Department, shall remain available until expended, and 
may be used for such administrative costs for administering any funds 
appropriated to the Department for any disaster relief and related 
purposes in any prior or future act, notwithstanding the purposes for 
which such funds were appropriated:  Provided, That amounts transferred 
pursuant to this section that were previously designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a Concurrent 
Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act are designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and shall be transferred only if 
the President subsequently so designates the entire transfer and 
transmits such designation to the Congress.
    Sec. 248.  None of the funds made available under this title shall 
be used to enforce compliance with the Green Physical Needs Assessment 
for public housing agencies with 250 housing units or less.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Appropriations Act, 2016''.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                              Access Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Access Board, as authorized by 
section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $8,023,000:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may 
be credited to this appropriation funds received for publications and 
training expenses.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
5901-5902, $25,660,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                National Railroad Passenger Corporation

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General for the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation to carry out the provisions of 
the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $23,999,000:  Provided, 
That the Inspector General shall have all necessary authority, in 
carrying out the duties specified in the Inspector General Act, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of fraud, 
including false statements to the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any 
person or entity that is subject to regulation by the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation:  Provided further, That the Inspector General 
may enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits, studies, 
analyses, and other services with public agencies and with private 
persons, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that govern the 
obtaining of such services within the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation:  Provided further, That the Inspector General may select, 
appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for 
carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office of 
Inspector General, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that 
govern such selections, appointments, and employment within the 
Corporation:  Provided further, That concurrent with the President's 
budget request for fiscal year 2017, the Inspector General shall submit 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a budget request 
for fiscal year 2017 in similar format and substance to those submitted 
by executive agencies of the Federal Government.

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
$105,170,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses. The amounts made available to 
the National Transportation Safety Board in this Act include amounts 
necessary to make lease payments on an obligation incurred in fiscal 
year 2001 for a capital lease.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $140,000,000, of 
which $5,000,000 shall be for a multi-family rental housing program.

           United States Interagency Council on Homelessness

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference 
rooms, and the employment of experts and consultants under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code) of the United States Interagency 
Council on Homelessness in carrying out the functions pursuant to title 
II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended, 
$3,530,000. Title II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 11314) is amended in section 204(a) by striking ``level V'' and 
inserting ``level IV''.

                                TITLE IV

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 401.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 403.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through a procurement contract pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 404. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 405.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the agencies or entities funded in this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2016, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees and 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that:
            (1) creates a new program;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
        the Congress;
            (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
        by either the House or Senate Committees on Appropriations for 
        a different purpose;
            (5) augments existing programs, projects, or activities in 
        excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less;
            (6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by 
        $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a branch, 
        division, office, bureau, board, commission, agency, 
        administration, or department different from the budget 
        justifications submitted to the Committees on Appropriations or 
        the table accompanying the explanatory statement accompanying 
        this Act, whichever is more detailed, unless prior approval is 
        received from the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations:  Provided, That not later than 60 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this 
        Act shall submit a report to the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations to establish the baseline for application of 
        reprogramming and transfer authorities for the current fiscal 
        year:  Provided further, That the report shall include:
                    (A) a table for each appropriation with a separate 
                column to display the prior year enacted level, the 
                President's budget request, adjustments made by 
                Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
                appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
                    (B) a delineation in the table for each 
                appropriation and its respective prior year enacted 
                level by object class and program, project, and 
                activity as detailed in the budget appendix for the 
                respective appropriation; and
                    (C) an identification of items of special 
                congressional interest:  Provided further, That the 
                amount appropriated or limited for salaries and 
                expenses for an agency shall be reduced by $100,000 per 
                day for each day after the required date that the 
                report has not been submitted to the House and Senate 
                Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 406.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2016 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2016 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2017, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized:  Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds:  Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines under section 405 
of this Act.
    Sec. 407.  No funds in this Act may be used to support any Federal, 
State, or local projects that seek to use the power of eminent domain, 
unless eminent domain is employed only for a public use:  Provided, 
That for purposes of this section, public use shall not be construed to 
include economic development that primarily benefits private entities:  
Provided further, That any use of funds for mass transit, railroad, 
airport, seaport or highway projects, as well as utility projects which 
benefit or serve the general public (including energy-related, 
communication-related, water-related and wastewater-related 
infrastructure), other structures designated for use by the general 
public or which have other common-carrier or public-utility functions 
that serve the general public and are subject to regulation and 
oversight by the government, and projects for the removal of an 
immediate threat to public health and safety or brownsfields as defined 
in the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownsfield Revitalization 
Act (Public Law 107-118) shall be considered a public use for purposes 
of eminent domain.
    Sec. 408.  All Federal agencies and departments that are funded 
under this Act shall issue a report to the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations on all sole-source contracts by no later than July 
30, 2016. Such report shall include the contractor, the amount of the 
contract and the rationale for using a sole-source contract.
    Sec. 409.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 410.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his or her period of active military or naval service, and 
has within 90 days after his or her release from such service or from 
hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more 
than 1 year, made application for restoration to his or her former 
position and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management 
as still qualified to perform the duties of his or her former position 
and has not been restored thereto.
    Sec. 411.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy 
American Act'').
    Sec. 412.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
made available to any person or entity that has been convicted of 
violating the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    Sec. 413.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for first-class airline accommodations in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 and 301-10.123 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 414. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to approve a new foreign air carrier permit under sections 41301 
through 41305 of title 49, United States Code, or exemption application 
under section 40109 of that title of an air carrier already holding an 
air operators certificate issued by a country that is party to the 
U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement where such approval 
would contravene United States law or Article 17 bis of the U.S.-E.U.-
Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict or otherwise 
preclude the Secretary of Transportation from granting a foreign air 
carrier permit or an exemption to such an air carrier where such 
authorization is consistent with the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air 
Transport Agreement and United States law.
    Sec. 415.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees 
of a single agency or department of the United States Government, who 
are stationed in the United States, at any single international 
conference unless the relevant Secretary reports to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days in advance that 
such attendance is important to the national interest:  Provided, That 
for purposes of this section the term ``international conference'' 
shall mean a conference occurring outside of the United States attended 
by representatives of the United States Government and of foreign 
governments, international organizations, or nongovernmental 
organizations.
    This division may be cited as the ``Transportation, Housing and 
Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016''.
                                                       Calendar No. 248

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 2129

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, Energy and Water Development, and Departments of 
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and related programs 
 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 6, 2015

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
