[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2578 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 120
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2578

                          [Report No. 114-66]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 8, 2015

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             June 16, 2015

               Reported by Mr. Shelby, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce and Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
                     2016, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, 
<DELETED>That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2016, and for other purposes, namely:</DELETED>

                       <DELETED>TITLE I</DELETED>

               <DELETED>DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE</DELETED>

         <DELETED>International Trade Administration</DELETED>

            <DELETED>operations and administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for international trade activities 
of the Department of Commerce provided for by law, and for engaging in 
trade promotional activities abroad, including expenses of grants and 
cooperative agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United 
States firms, without regard to sections 3702 and 3703 of title 44, 
United States Code; full medical coverage for dependent members of 
immediate families of employees stationed overseas and employees 
temporarily posted overseas; travel and transportation of employees of 
the International Trade Administration between two points abroad, 
without regard to section 40118 of title 49, United States Code; 
employment of citizens of the United States and aliens by contract for 
services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding 10 years, 
and expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or 
construction of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use 
abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first 
paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, when such 
claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $294,300 for official 
representation expenses abroad; purchase of passenger motor vehicles 
for official use abroad, not to exceed $45,000 per vehicle; obtaining 
insurance on official motor vehicles; and rental of tie lines, 
$472,000,000 (reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by $1), to remain 
available until September 30, 2017, of which $10,000,000 is to be 
derived from fees to be retained and used by the International Trade 
Administration, notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States 
Code:  Provided, That, of amounts provided under this heading, not less 
than $16,400,000 shall be for China antidumping and countervailing duty 
enforcement and compliance activities:  Provided further, That the 
provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 
108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these 
activities; and that for the purpose of this Act, contributions under 
the provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 
1961 shall include payment for assessments for services provided as 
part of these activities.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Bureau of Industry and Security</DELETED>

            <DELETED>operations and administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for export administration and 
national security activities of the Department of Commerce, including 
costs associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed 
overseas; employment of citizens of the United States and aliens by 
contract for services abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner 
authorized in the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United 
States Code, when such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed 
$13,500 for official representation expenses abroad; awards of 
compensation to informers under the Export Administration Act of 1979, 
and as authorized by section 1(b) of the Act of June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 
223; 22 U.S.C. 401(b)); and purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with special 
requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard to any price 
limitation otherwise established by law, $110,000,000 (increased by 
$1), to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the provisions 
of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of 
the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities:  
Provided further, That payments and contributions collected and 
accepted for materials or services provided as part of such activities 
may be retained for use in covering the cost of such activities, and 
for providing information to the public with respect to the export 
administration and national security activities of the Department of 
Commerce and other export control programs of the United States and 
other governments.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Economic Development Administration</DELETED>

      <DELETED>economic development assistance programs</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants for economic development assistance as provided 
by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, for trade 
adjustment assistance, for grants authorized by section 27 of the 
Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), 
$213,000,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of administering the economic 
development assistance programs as provided for by law, $37,000,000:  
Provided, That these funds may be used to monitor projects approved 
pursuant to title I of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, title 
II of the Trade Act of 1974, section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), and the Community 
Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1977.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Minority Business Development Agency</DELETED>

            <DELETED>minority business development</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in 
fostering, promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, 
including expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with 
public or private organizations, $32,000,000.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Economics and Statistics Analysis</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic 
and statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Bureau of the Census</DELETED>

            <DELETED> current surveys and programs</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, 
analyzing, preparing and publishing statistics, provided for by law, 
$265,000,000 (reduced by $4,000,000):  Provided, That, from amounts 
provided herein, funds may be used for promotion, outreach, and 
marketing activities:  Provided further, That the Bureau of the Census 
shall collect data for the Annual Social and Economic Supplement to the 
Current Population Survey using the same health insurance questions 
included in previous years, in addition to the revised questions 
implemented in the Current Population Survey beginning in February 
2014.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>periodic censuses and programs</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, 
analyzing, preparing and publishing statistics for periodic censuses 
and programs provided for by law, $848,000,000 (reduced by 
$100,000,000) (reduced by $17,300,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That, from amounts provided herein, 
funds may be used for promotion, outreach, and marketing activities:  
Provided further, That within the amounts appropriated, $1,551,000 
shall be transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' account for 
activities associated with carrying out investigations and audits 
related to the Bureau of the Census:  Provided further, That not more 
than 50 percent of the amounts made available under this heading for 
information technology related to 2020 census delivery, including the 
Census Enterprise Data Collection and Processing (CEDCaP) program, may 
be obligated until the Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a plan 
for expenditure that: (1) identifies for each CEDCaP project/investment 
over $25,000: (A) the functional and performance capabilities to be 
delivered and the mission benefits to be realized; (B) the estimated 
lifecycle cost, including estimates for development as well as 
maintenance and operations; and (C) key milestones to be met; (2) 
details for each project/investment: (A) reasons for any cost and 
schedule variances; and (B) top risks and mitigation strategies; and 
(3) has been submitted to the Government Accountability 
Office.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>National Telecommunications and Information 
                        Administration</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the 
National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), 
$35,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, 
That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce 
shall charge Federal agencies for costs incurred in spectrum 
management, analysis, operations, and related services, and such fees 
shall be retained and used as offsetting collections for costs of such 
spectrum services, to remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Commerce is authorized to retain and use 
as offsetting collections all funds transferred, or previously 
transferred, from other Government agencies for all costs incurred in 
telecommunications research, engineering, and related activities by the 
Institute for Telecommunication Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its 
assigned functions under this paragraph, and such funds received from 
other Government agencies shall remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>public telecommunications facilities, planning and 
                         construction</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the administration of prior-year grants, recoveries 
and unobligated balances of funds previously appropriated are available 
for the administration of all open grants until their 
expiration.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>United States Patent and Trademark Office</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and 
Trademark Office (USPTO) provided for by law, including defense of 
suits instituted against the Under Secretary of Commerce for 
Intellectual Property and Director of the USPTO, $3,272,000,000, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as offsetting 
collections of fees and surcharges assessed and collected by the USPTO 
under any law are received during fiscal year 2016, so as to result in 
a fiscal year 2016 appropriation from the general fund estimated at $0: 
 Provided further, That during fiscal year 2016, should the total 
amount of such offsetting collections be less than $3,272,000,000 this 
amount shall be reduced accordingly:  Provided further, That any amount 
received in excess of $3,272,000,000 in fiscal year 2016 and deposited 
in the Patent and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That the Director of USPTO shall 
submit a spending plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate for any amounts made available by the 
preceding proviso and such spending plan shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section:  Provided further, That any amounts 
reprogrammed in accordance with the preceding proviso shall be 
transferred to the United States Patent and Trademark Office ``Salaries 
and Expenses'' account:  Provided further, That from amounts provided 
herein, not to exceed $900 shall be made available in fiscal year 2016 
for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That in fiscal year 2016 from the amounts made available for ``Salaries 
and Expenses'' for the USPTO, the amounts necessary to pay: (1) the 
difference between the percentage of basic pay contributed by the USPTO 
and employees under section 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code, and 
the normal cost percentage (as defined by section 8331(17) of that 
title) as provided by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for 
USPTO's specific use, of basic pay, of employees subject to subchapter 
III of chapter 83 of that title; and (2) the present value of the 
otherwise unfunded accruing costs, as determined by OPM for USPTO's 
specific use of post-retirement life insurance and post-retirement 
health benefits coverage for all USPTO employees who are enrolled in 
Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal Employees Group 
Life Insurance (FEGLI), shall be transferred to the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund, the FEGLI Fund, and the FEHB Fund, as 
appropriate, and shall be available for the authorized purposes of 
those accounts:  Provided further, That any differences between the 
present value factors published in OPM's yearly 300 series benefit 
letters and the factors that OPM provides for USPTO's specific use 
shall be recognized as an imputed cost on USPTO's financial statements, 
where applicable:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, all fees and surcharges assessed and collected by 
USPTO are available for USPTO only pursuant to section 42(c) of title 
35, United States Code, as amended by section 22 of the Leahy-Smith 
America Invents Act (Public Law 112-29):  Provided further, That within 
the amounts appropriated, $2,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
``Office of Inspector General'' account for activities associated with 
carrying out investigations and audits related to the USPTO.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>National Institute of Standards and Technology</DELETED>

   <DELETED>scientific and technical research and services</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology (NIST), $675,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, of which not to exceed $9,000,000 may be transferred to 
the ``Working Capital Fund'':  Provided, That not to exceed $5,000 
shall be for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided 
further, That NIST may provide local transportation for summer 
undergraduate research fellowship program participants.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>industrial technology services</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Hollings Manufacturing 
Extension Partnership of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, $130,000,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>construction of research facilities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For construction of new research facilities, including 
architectural and engineering design, and for renovation and 
maintenance of existing facilities, not otherwise provided for the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology, as authorized by 
sections 13 through 15 of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278c-278e), $50,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That the Secretary of Commerce shall include 
in the budget justification materials that the Secretary submits to 
Congress in support of the Department of Commerce budget (as submitted 
with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code) an estimate for each National Institute of 
Standards and Technology construction project having a total multi-year 
program cost of more than $5,000,000, and simultaneously the budget 
justification materials shall include an estimate of the budgetary 
requirements for each such project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal 
years.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration</DELETED>

        <DELETED>operations, research, and facilities</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including 
maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft and vessels; grants, 
contracts, or other payments to nonprofit organizations for the 
purposes of conducting activities pursuant to cooperative agreements; 
and relocation of facilities, $3,147,877,000 (reduced by $21,000,000) 
(increased by $21,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000), to remain 
available until September 30, 2017, except that funds provided for 
cooperative enforcement shall remain available until September 30, 
2018:  Provided, That fees and donations received by the National Ocean 
Service for the management of national marine sanctuaries may be 
retained and used for the salaries and expenses associated with those 
activities, notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That in addition, $130,164,000 shall be 
derived by transfer from the fund entitled ``Promote and Develop 
Fishery Products and Research Pertaining to American Fisheries'', which 
shall only be used for fishery activities related to the Saltonstall-
Kennedy Grant Program, Cooperative Research, Annual Stock Assessments, 
Survey and Monitoring Projects, Interjurisdictional Fisheries Grants, 
and Fish Information Networks:  Provided further, That of the 
$3,295,541,000 provided for in direct obligations under this heading 
$3,147,877,000 is appropriated from the general fund, $130,164,000 is 
provided by transfer, and $17,500,000 is derived from recoveries of 
prior year obligations:  Provided further, That the total amount 
available for National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration corporate 
services administrative support costs shall not exceed $208,100,000 
(reduced by $21,000,000):  Provided further, That any deviation from 
the amounts designated for specific activities in the report 
accompanying this Act, or any use of deobligated balances of funds 
provided under this heading in previous years, shall be subject to the 
procedures set forth in section 505 of this Act:  Provided further, 
That in addition, for necessary retired pay expenses under the Retired 
Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefits Plan, and for 
payments for the medical care of retired personnel and their dependents 
under the Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. 55), such sums as may 
be necessary.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>procurement, acquisition and construction</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital 
assets, including alteration and modification costs, of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, $1,960,034,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018, except that funds provided for 
construction of facilities shall remain available until expended:  
Provided, That of the $1,973,034,000 provided for in direct obligations 
under this heading, $1,960,034,000 is appropriated from the general 
fund and $13,000,000 is provided from recoveries of prior year 
obligations:  Provided further, That any deviation from the amounts 
designated for specific activities in the report accompanying this Act, 
or any use of deobligated balances of funds provided under this heading 
in previous years, shall be subject to the procedures set forth in 
section 505 of this Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary of 
Commerce shall include in budget justification materials that the 
Secretary submits to Congress in support of the Department of Commerce 
budget (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) an estimate for each National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration procurement, acquisition or 
construction project having a total of more than $5,000,000 and 
simultaneously the budget justification shall include an estimate of 
the budgetary requirements for each such project for each of the 5 
subsequent fiscal years:  Provided further, That, within the amounts 
appropriated, $1,302,000 shall be transferred to the ``Office of 
Inspector General'' account for activities associated with carrying out 
investigations and audits related to satellite procurement, acquisition 
and construction.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>pacific coastal salmon recovery</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of 
Pacific salmon populations, $65,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That, of the funds provided herein, the 
Secretary of Commerce may issue grants to the States of Washington, 
Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, California, and Alaska, and to the Federally 
recognized tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific Coast (including 
Alaska), for projects necessary for conservation of salmon and 
steelhead populations that are listed as threatened or endangered, or 
that are identified by a State as at-risk to be so listed, for 
maintaining populations necessary for exercise of tribal treaty fishing 
rights or native subsistence fishing, or for conservation of Pacific 
coastal salmon and steelhead habitat, based on guidelines to be 
developed by the Secretary of Commerce:  Provided further, That all 
funds shall be allocated based on scientific and other merit principles 
and shall not be available for marketing activities:  Provided further, 
That funds disbursed to States shall be subject to a matching 
requirement of funds or documented in-kind contributions of at least 33 
percent of the Federal funds.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>fishermen's contingency fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 
95-372, not to exceed $350,000, to be derived from receipts collected 
pursuant to that Act, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>fisheries finance program account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, during fiscal year 2016, obligations of direct loans may not 
exceed $24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans and not to exceed 
$100,000,000 for traditional direct loans as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act of 1936.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Departmental Management</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for the management of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed 
$4,500 for official reception and representation, 
$50,000,000.</DELETED>

            <DELETED> renovation and modernization</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for the renovation and 
modernization of the Herbert C. Hoover Building, $3,989,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $1,082,000 shall be for security 
systems and $2,907,000 shall be for blast-resistant windows.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>office of inspector general</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.), $32,000,000.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>General Provisions--Department of Commerce</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 101.  During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations and funds made available to the Department of Commerce 
by this Act shall be available for the activities specified in the Act 
of October 26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner 
prescribed by the Act, and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used 
for advanced payments not otherwise authorized only upon the 
certification of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that 
such payments are in the public interest.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 102.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations 
made available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries 
and expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 103.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
made available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
Commerce in this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, 
but no such appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by 
any such transfers:  Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this 
section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days in advance of the 
acquisition or disposal of any capital asset (including land, 
structures, and equipment) not specifically provided for in this Act or 
any other law appropriating funds for the Department of 
Commerce.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 104.  The requirements set forth by section 105 of 
the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-55), as amended by section 105 of title I of 
division B of Public Law 113-6, are hereby adopted by reference and 
made applicable with respect to fiscal year 2016:  Provided, That the 
life cycle cost for the Joint Polar Satellite System is $11,322,125,000 
and the life cycle cost for the Geostationary Operational Environmental 
Satellite R-Series Program is $10,828,059,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary may furnish services (including but not limited to utilities, 
telecommunications, and security services) necessary to support the 
operation, maintenance, and improvement of space that persons, firms, 
or organizations are authorized, pursuant to the Public Buildings 
Cooperative Use Act of 1976 or other authority, to use or occupy in the 
Herbert C. Hoover Building, Washington, DC, or other buildings, the 
maintenance, operation, and protection of which has been delegated to 
the Secretary from the Administrator of General Services pursuant to 
the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 on a 
reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts received as 
reimbursement for services provided under this section or the authority 
under which the use or occupancy of the space is authorized, up to 
$200,000, shall be credited to the appropriation or fund which 
initially bears the costs of such services.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 106.  Nothing in this title shall be construed to 
prevent a grant recipient from deterring child pornography, copyright 
infringement, or any other unlawful activity over its 
networks.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 107.  The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration is authorized to use, with their consent, 
with reimbursement and subject to the limits of available 
appropriations, the land, services, equipment, personnel, and 
facilities of any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States, or of any State, local government, Indian tribal government, 
Territory, or possession, or of any political subdivision thereof, or 
of any foreign government or international organization, for purposes 
related to carrying out the responsibilities of any statute 
administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 108.  The National Technical Information Service 
shall not charge any customer for a copy of any report or document 
generated by the Legislative Branch unless the Service has provided 
information to the customer on how an electronic copy of such report or 
document may be accessed and downloaded for free online. Should a 
customer still require the Service to provide a printed or digital copy 
of the report or document, the charge shall be limited to recovering 
the Service's cost of processing, reproducing, and delivering such 
report or document.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 109.  The Secretary of Commerce may waive the 
requirement for bonds under 40 U.S.C. 3131 with respect to contracts 
for the construction, alteration, or repair of vessels, regardless of 
the terms of the contracts as to payment or title, when the contract is 
made under the Coast and Geodetic Survey Act of 1947 (33 U.S.C. 883a et 
seq.).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 110.  In fiscal year 2016, the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology may use unobligated balances from the 
``National Institute of Standards and Technology--Industrial Technology 
Services'' account for the purposes of and subject to the limitations 
in section 34(e)(2) of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278s(e)(2)).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE II</DELETED>

                <DELETED>DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE</DELETED>

               <DELETED>General Administration</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary for the administration of the 
Department of Justice, $105,000,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by 
$2,209,500) (reduced by $2,500,000) (reduced by $750,000) (reduced by 
$2,000,000), of which not to exceed $4,000,000 for security and 
construction of Department of Justice facilities shall remain available 
until expended.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>justice information sharing technology</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, 
including planning, development, deployment and departmental direction, 
$25,842,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Attorney General may transfer up to $35,400,000 to this account, from 
funds available to the Department of Justice for information 
technology, to remain available until expended, for enterprise-wide 
information technology initiatives:  Provided further, That the 
transfer authority in the preceding proviso is in addition to any other 
transfer authority contained in this Act.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>administrative review and appeals</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary for the administration of pardon 
and clemency petitions and immigration-related activities, 
$426,791,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the 
Executive Office for Immigration Review fees deposited in the 
``Immigration Examinations Fee'' account:  Provided, That under this 
heading of the amount available for the Executive Office for 
Immigration Review, not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>office of inspector general</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$92,000,000 (increased by $1,709,000), including not to exceed $10,000 
to meet unforeseen emergencies of a confidential character.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>United States Parole Commission</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole 
Commission as authorized, $13,308,000.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>Legal Activities</DELETED>

   <DELETED>salaries and expenses, general legal activities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the 
Department of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to 
exceed $20,000 for expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended 
under the direction of, and to be accounted for solely under the 
certificate of, the Attorney General; and rent of private or 
Government-owned space in the District of Columbia, $885,000,000 
(reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000), of which not to exceed 
$20,000,000 for litigation support contracts shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of the amount provided for INTERPOL 
Washington dues payments, not to exceed $685,000 shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $9,000 shall be available to INTERPOL 
Washington for official reception and representation expenses:  
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, such sums as may be 
necessary shall be available to the Civil Rights Division for salaries 
and expenses associated with the election monitoring program under 
section 8 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10305) and to 
reimburse the Office of Personnel Management for such salaries and 
expenses:  Provided further, That of the amounts provided under this 
heading for the election monitoring program, $3,390,000 shall remain 
available until expended.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the 
Department of Justice associated with processing cases under the 
National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed 
$8,000,000, to be appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation 
Trust Fund.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>salaries and expenses, antitrust division</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust 
and kindred laws, $162,246,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, fees 
collected for premerger notification filings under the Hart-Scott-
Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless 
of the year of collection (and estimated to be $124,000,000 in fiscal 
year 2016), shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation, and shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall 
be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal 
year 2016, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2016 appropriation 
from the general fund estimated at $38,246,000.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>salaries and expenses, united states attorneys</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative agreements, 
$1,995,000,000:  Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not 
to exceed $7,200 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$25,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That each United States Attorney shall establish or participate in a 
task force on human trafficking.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>united states trustee system fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee 
Program, as authorized, $225,908,000, to remain available until 
expended and to be derived from the United States Trustee System Fund:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, deposits to 
the Fund shall be available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay 
refunds due depositors:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, $162,000,000 of offsetting collections pursuant 
to section 589a(b) of title 28, United States Code, shall be retained 
and used for necessary expenses in this appropriation and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 2016, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2016 appropriation from the Fund estimated at 
$63,908,000.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement 
                          commission</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the 
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized 
by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, $2,326,000.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>fees and expenses of witnesses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of 
contracts for the procurement and supervision of expert witnesses, for 
private counsel expenses, including advances, and for expenses of 
foreign counsel, $270,000,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed $16,000,000 is for construction of buildings for 
protected witness safesites; not to exceed $3,000,000 is for the 
purchase and maintenance of armored and other vehicles for witness 
security caravans; and not to exceed $13,000,000 is for the purchase, 
installation, maintenance, and upgrade of secure telecommunications 
equipment and a secure automated information network to store and 
retrieve the identities and locations of protected witnesses:  
Provided, That amounts made available under this heading may not be 
transferred pursuant to section 205 of this Act.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>salaries and expenses, community relations service</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
$13,000,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, 
upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for conflict resolution and 
violence prevention activities of the Community Relations Service, the 
Attorney General may transfer such amounts to the Community Relations 
Service, from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for 
the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>United States Marshals Service</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals 
Service, $1,220,000,000, of which not to exceed $6,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, and not 
to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain available until expended.</DELETED>

                    <DELETED>construction</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For construction in space controlled, occupied or utilized 
by the United States Marshals Service for prisoner holding and related 
support, $11,000,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>federal prisoner detention</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses related to United States prisoners 
in the custody of the United States Marshals Service as authorized by 
section 4013 of title 18, United States Code, $1,058,081,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall be considered ``funds appropriated for State and local law 
enforcement assistance'' pursuant to section 4013(b) of title 18, 
United States Code:  Provided further, That the United States Marshals 
Service shall be responsible for managing the Justice Prisoner and 
Alien Transportation System:  Provided further, That any unobligated 
balances available from funds appropriated under the heading ``General 
Administration, Detention Trustee'' shall be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation under this heading.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>National Security Division</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the 
National Security Division, $95,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$5,000,000 for information technology systems shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this 
Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for the activities of the 
National Security Division, the Attorney General may transfer such 
amounts to this heading from available appropriations for the current 
fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to 
respond to such circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer 
pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming 
under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Interagency Law Enforcement</DELETED>

       <DELETED>interagency crime and drug enforcement</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for the identification, 
investigation, and prosecution of individuals associated with the most 
significant drug trafficking and affiliated money laundering 
organizations not otherwise provided for, to include inter-governmental 
agreements with State and local law enforcement agencies engaged in the 
investigation and prosecution of individuals involved in organized 
crime drug trafficking, $510,000,000, of which $50,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That any amounts obligated from 
appropriations under this heading may be used under authorities 
available to the organizations reimbursed from this 
appropriation.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Federal Bureau of Investigation</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation for detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes 
against the United States, $8,489,786,000, of which not to exceed 
$216,900,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That not 
to exceed $184,500 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.</DELETED>

                    <DELETED>construction</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, to include the cost of equipment, 
furniture, and information technology requirements, related to 
construction or acquisition of buildings, facilities and sites by 
purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law; conversion, modification 
and extension of federally owned buildings; preliminary planning and 
design of projects; and operation and maintenance of secure work 
environment facilities and secure networking capabilities; $57,982,000, 
to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Drug Enforcement Administration</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement 
Administration, including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character pursuant to section 530C of 
title 28, United States Code; and expenses for conducting drug 
education and training programs, including travel and related expenses 
for participants in such programs and the distribution of items of 
token value that promote the goals of such programs, $2,073,945,000 
(reduced by $4,000,000) (reduced by $9,000,000) (reduced by 
$10,000,000), of which not to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended and not to exceed $90,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
Firearms and Explosives, for training of State and local law 
enforcement agencies with or without reimbursement, including training 
in connection with the training and acquisition of canines for 
explosives and fire accelerants detection; and for provision of 
laboratory assistance to State and local law enforcement agencies, with 
or without reimbursement, $1,250,000,000 (reduced by $5,000,000) 
(reduced by $5,000,000), of which not to exceed $36,000 shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses, not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for the payment of attorneys' fees as 
provided by section 924(d)(2) of title 18, United States Code, and not 
to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That such funds appropriated herein shall be available to investigate 
or act upon applications for relief from Federal firearms disabilities 
under section 925(c) of title 18, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That such funds shall be available to investigate and act upon 
applications filed by corporations for relief from Federal firearms 
disabilities under section 925(c) of title 18, United States Code:  
Provided further, That no funds made available by this or any other Act 
may be used to transfer the functions, missions, or activities of the 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to other agencies 
or Departments.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Federal Prison System</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Federal Prison System for 
the administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions, and for the provision of technical 
assistance and advice on corrections related issues to foreign 
governments, $6,951,500,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by 
$1,000,000):  Provided, That the Attorney General may transfer to the 
Department of Health and Human Services such amounts as may be 
necessary for direct expenditures by that Department for medical relief 
for inmates of Federal penal and correctional institutions:  Provided 
further, That the Director of the Federal Prison System, where 
necessary, may enter into contracts with a fiscal agent or fiscal 
intermediary claims processor to determine the amounts payable to 
persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison System, furnish health 
services to individuals committed to the custody of the Federal Prison 
System:  Provided further, That not to exceed $5,400 shall be available 
for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That not to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available for necessary 
operations until September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That, of the 
amounts provided for contract confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall remain available until expended to make payments in advance for 
grants, contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other expenses:  
Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison System may 
accept donated property and services relating to the operation of the 
prison card program from a not-for-profit entity which has operated 
such program in the past, notwithstanding the fact that such not-for-
profit entity furnishes services under contracts to the Federal Prison 
System relating to the operation of pre-release services, halfway 
houses, or other custodial facilities.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>buildings and facilities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and 
equipping of such facilities for penal and correctional use, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
and constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account, 
$230,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which $145,000,000 
shall be available only for costs related to construction of new 
facilities:  Provided, That labor of United States prisoners may be 
used for work performed under this appropriation.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>federal prison industries, incorporated</DELETED>

<DELETED>    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States 
Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the 
budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation.</DELETED>

    <DELETED>limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison 
                   industries, incorporated</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the Federal 
Prison Industries, Incorporated, shall be available for its 
administrative expenses, and for services as authorized by section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, to be computed on an accrual basis to 
be determined in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed 
accounting system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, 
payment of claims, and expenditures which such accounting system 
requires to be capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired 
or produced, including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in 
connection with acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, 
improvement, protection, or disposition of facilities and other 
property belonging to the corporation or in which it has an 
interest.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>State and Local Law Enforcement Activities</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Office on Violence Against Women</DELETED>

      <DELETED>violence against women prevention and prosecution 
                           programs</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance for the prevention and prosecution of violence against 
women, as authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) (``the 1968 Act''); the Violent Crime 
Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 
1994 Act''); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-
647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to 
end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); 
the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 
5601 et seq.) (``the 1974 Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and 
Violence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386) (``the 2000 
Act''); the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); 
and the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 
113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); and for related victims services, 
$479,000,000 (increased by $17,300,000) (increased by $750,000) 
(increased by $4,000,000), to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That of the amount provided--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) $196,000,000 is for grants to combat violence 
        against women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 
        Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) $28,000,000 is for transitional housing 
        assistance grants for victims of domestic violence, dating 
        violence, stalking, or sexual assault as authorized by section 
        40299 of the 1994 Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) $8,000,000 is for the National Institute of 
        Justice for research and evaluation of violence against women 
        and related issues addressed by grant programs of the Office on 
        Violence Against Women, which shall be transferred to and 
        administered by the Office of Justice Programs;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) $11,000,000 (increased by $4,000,000) is for a 
        grant program to provide services to advocate for and respond 
        to youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual 
        assault, and stalking; assistance to children and youth exposed 
        to such violence; programs to engage men and youth in 
        preventing such violence; and assistance to middle and high 
        school students through education and other services related to 
        such violence:  Provided, That unobligated balances available 
        for the programs authorized by sections 41201, 41204, 41303, 
        and 41305 of the 1994 Act, prior to its amendment by the 2013 
        Act, shall be available for this program:  Provided further, 
        That 10 percent of the total amount available for this grant 
        program shall be available for grants under the program 
        authorized by section 2015 of the 1968 Act:  Provided further, 
        That the definitions and grant conditions in section 40002 of 
        the 1994 Act shall apply to this program;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) $51,000,000 is for grants to encourage arrest 
        policies as authorized by part U of the 1968 Act, of which 
        $4,000,000 is for a homicide reduction initiative;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (6) $35,000,000 is for sexual assault victims 
        assistance, as authorized by section 41601 of the 1994 
        Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (7) $33,000,000 is for rural domestic violence and 
        child abuse enforcement assistance grants, including as 
        authorized by section 40295 of the 1994 Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (8) $16,000,000 is for grants to reduce violent 
        crimes against women on campus, as authorized by section 304 of 
        the 2005 Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (9) $42,500,000 is for legal assistance for 
        victims, as authorized by section 1201 of the 2000 
        Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (10) $4,500,000 (increased by $750,000) is for 
        enhanced training and services to end violence against and 
        abuse of women in later life, as authorized by section 40802 of 
        the 1994 Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (11) $16,000,000 is for grants to support families 
        in the justice system, as authorized by section 1301 of the 
        2000 Act:  Provided, That unobligated balances available for 
        the programs authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act and 
        section 41002 of the 1994 Act, prior to their amendment by the 
        2013 Act, shall be available for this program;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (12) $6,000,000 is for education and training to 
        end violence against and abuse of women with disabilities, as 
        authorized by section 1402 of the 2000 Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (13) $500,000 is for the National Resource Center 
        on Workplace Responses to assist victims of domestic violence, 
        as authorized by section 41501 of the 1994 Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research on 
        violence against Indian women, including as authorized by 
        section 904 of the 2005 Act:  Provided, That such funds may be 
        transferred to and administered by the Office of Justice 
        Programs;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (15) $500,000 is for a national clearinghouse that 
        provides training and technical assistance on issues relating 
        to sexual assault of American Indian and Alaska Native 
        women;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (16) $25,000,000 (increased by $17,300,000) for 
        victim services programs for victims of trafficking, as 
        authorized by section 107(b)(2) of Public Law 106-386, for 
        programs authorized under Public Law 109-164, or programs 
        authorized under Public Law 113-4; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (17) $5,000,000 for the purposes authorized under 
        the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Office of Justice Programs</DELETED>

     <DELETED>state and local law enforcement assistance</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement 
Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Justice 
for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-405); the Victims of Child Abuse 
Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Trafficking 
Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-164); 
the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization 
Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the Adam Walsh 
Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the 
Adam Walsh Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection 
Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386); the NICS Improvement Amendments Act 
of 2007 (Public Law 110-180); subtitle D of title II of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); the 
Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Prioritizing 
Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 
(Public Law 110-403); the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-
473); the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction 
Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-416); the 
Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) 
(``the 2013 Act''); and other programs, $1,015,400,000 (increased by 
$5,000,000) (increased by $100,000,000) (increased by $4,000,000) 
(increased by $2,500,000) (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by 
$5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) 
(increased by $1,000,000), to remain available until expended as 
follows--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) $409,000,000 (increased by $100,000,000) for 
        the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program as 
        authorized by subpart 1 of part E of title I of the 1968 Act 
        (except that section 1001(c), and the special rules for Puerto 
        Rico under section 505(g) of title I of the 1968 Act shall not 
        apply for purposes of this Act), of which, notwithstanding such 
        subpart 1, $20,000,000 is for grants for law enforcement 
        activities associated with the presidential nominating 
        conventions, $15,000,000 is for an Officer Robert Wilson III 
        memorial initiative on Preventing Violence Against Law 
        Enforcement Officer Resilience and Survivability (VALOR), 
        $4,000,000 is for use by the National Institute of Justice for 
        research targeted toward developing a better understanding of 
        the domestic radicalization phenomenon, and advancing evidence-
        based strategies for effective intervention and prevention, 
        $22,500,000 is for the matching grant program for law 
        enforcement armor vests, as authorized by section 2501 of title 
        I of the 1968 Act, and $2,500,000 is for a program to improve 
        juvenile indigent defense;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) $220,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien 
        Assistance Program, as authorized by section 241(i)(5) of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(i)(5)):  
        Provided, That no jurisdiction shall request compensation for 
        any cost greater than the actual cost for Federal immigration 
        and other detainees housed in State and local detention 
        facilities;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) $41,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) for Drug 
        Courts, as authorized by section 1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of 
        the 1968 Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) $7,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) 
        (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000) for mental 
        health courts and adult and juvenile collaboration program 
        grants, as authorized by parts V and HH of title I of the 1968 
        Act, and the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime 
        Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2008 (Public 
        Law 110-416);</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) $2,000,000 for the Capital Litigation 
        Improvement Grant Program, as authorized by section 426 of 
        Public Law 108-405, and for grants for wrongful conviction 
        review;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (6) $5,000,000 for economic, high technology and 
        Internet crime prevention grants, including as authorized by 
        section 401 of Public Law 110-403;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (7) $20,000,000 for sex offender management 
        assistance, as authorized by the Adam Walsh Act, and related 
        activities;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (8) $1,000,000 for the National Sex Offender 
        Public Website;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (9) $73,000,000 for grants to States to upgrade 
        criminal and mental health records for the National Instant 
        Criminal Background Check System, including as authorized by 
        the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-
        180);</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (10) $125,000,000 for DNA-related and forensic 
        programs and activities, of which--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) $117,000,000 is for a DNA analysis and 
                capacity enhancement program and for other local, 
                State, and Federal forensic activities, including the 
                purposes authorized under section 2 of the DNA Analysis 
                Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-546) 
                (the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program):  
                Provided, That up to 4 percent of funds made available 
                under this paragraph may be used for the purposes 
                described in the DNA Training and Education for Law 
                Enforcement, Correctional Personnel, and Court Officers 
                program (Public Law 108-405, section 303);</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) $4,000,000 is for the purposes 
                described in the Kirk Bloodsworth Post-Conviction DNA 
                Testing Program (Public Law 108-405, section 412); 
                and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault 
                Forensic Exam Program grants, including as authorized 
                by section 304 of Public Law 108-405;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (11) $6,000,000 for the court-appointed special 
        advocate program, as authorized by section 217 of the 1990 
        Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (12) $5,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) 
        (increased by $2,500,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (increased 
        by $1,000,000) for a veterans treatment courts 
        program;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (13) $11,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) for a 
        program to monitor prescription drugs and scheduled listed 
        chemical products;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (14) $13,000,000 for prison rape prevention and 
        prosecution grants to States and units of local government, and 
        other programs, as authorized by the Prison Rape Elimination 
        Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-79);</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (15) $75,000,000 is for the Comprehensive School 
        Safety Initiative; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (16) $2,400,000 for the operationalization, 
        maintenance and expansion of the National Missing and 
        Unidentified Persons System:</DELETED>
<DELETED>  Provided, That, if a unit of local government uses any of 
the funds made available under this heading to increase the number of 
law enforcement officers, the unit of local government will achieve a 
net gain in the number of law enforcement officers who perform non-
administrative public sector safety service.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>juvenile justice programs</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance, the following amounts are made available until expended--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) $95,000,000 for youth mentoring 
        grants;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) $19,000,000 (increased by $3,000,000) for 
        programs authorized by the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 
        1990;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) $68,000,000 for missing and exploited children 
        programs, including as authorized by sections 404(b) and 405(a) 
        of the 1974 Act (except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of the 
        PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401) shall not 
        apply for purposes of this Act); and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) $1,500,000 for child abuse training programs 
        for judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized by 
        section 222 of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 
        1990.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>public safety officer benefits</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payments and expenses authorized under section 
1001(a)(4) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968, such sums as are necessary (including amounts for 
administrative costs), to remain available until expended; and 
$16,300,000 for payments authorized by section 1201(b) of such Act and 
for educational assistance authorized by section 1218 of such Act, to 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 205 of this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General 
that emergent circumstances require additional funding for such 
disability and education payments, the Attorney General may transfer 
such amounts to ``Public Safety Officer Benefits'' from available 
appropriations for the Department of Justice as may be necessary to 
respond to such circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer 
pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming 
under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Community Oriented Policing Services</DELETED>

    <DELETED>community oriented policing services programs</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other 
assistance, the following amounts are made available until expended:  
Provided, That any balances made available through prior year 
deobligations shall only be available in accordance with section 505 of 
this Act--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) $11,000,000 for anti-methamphetamine-related 
        activities, which shall be transferred to the Drug Enforcement 
        Administration upon enactment of this Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) $30,000,000 for assistance to Indian 
        tribes;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) $52,500,000 (increased by $10,000,000) for 
        initiatives to improve police-community relations, as described 
        in the report accompanying this Act;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) $41,000,000 (increased by $4,000,000) for a 
        grant program for community-based sexual assault response 
        reform;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) $68,000,000 for offender reentry programs and 
        research, as authorized by the Second Chance Act of 2007 
        (Public Law 110-199), without regard to the time limitations 
        specified at section 6(1) of such Act; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (6) $35,000,000 is for regional information 
        sharing activities, as authorized by part M of title I of the 
        Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>General Provisions--Department of Justice</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 201.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available 
in this title for official reception and representation expenses, a 
total of not to exceed $50,000 from funds appropriated to the 
Department of Justice in this title shall be available to the Attorney 
General for official reception and representation expenses.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 202.  None of the funds appropriated by this title 
shall be available to pay for an abortion, except where the life of the 
mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or in the 
case of rape or incest:  Provided, That should this prohibition be 
declared unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, this 
section shall be null and void.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated under this title 
shall be used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any 
way the performance of, any abortion.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 204.  Nothing in the preceding section shall remove 
the obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide 
escort services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service 
outside the Federal facility:  Provided, That nothing in this section 
in any way diminishes the effect of section 203 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of 
Prisons.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation 
made available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
Justice in this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but 
no such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall 
be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 206.  The Attorney General is authorized to extend 
through September 30, 2016, the Personnel Management Demonstration 
Project transferred to the Attorney General pursuant to section 1115 of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296; 28 U.S.C. 599B) 
without limitation on the number of employees or the positions 
covered.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 207.  None of the funds made available under this 
title may be used by the Federal Bureau of Prisons or the United States 
Marshals Service for the purpose of transporting an individual who is a 
prisoner pursuant to conviction for crime under State or Federal law 
and is classified as a maximum or high security prisoner, other than to 
a prison or other facility certified by the Federal Bureau of Prisons 
as appropriately secure for housing such a prisoner.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 208. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
may be used by Federal prisons to purchase cable television services, 
or to rent or purchase audiovisual or electronic media or equipment 
used primarily for recreational purposes.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the rental, 
maintenance, or purchase of audiovisual or electronic media or 
equipment for inmate training, religious, or educational 
programs.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 209.  None of the funds made available under this 
title shall be obligated or expended for any new or enhanced 
information technology program having total estimated development costs 
in excess of $100,000,000, unless the Deputy Attorney General and the 
investment review board certify to the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate that the information 
technology program has appropriate program management controls and 
contractor oversight mechanisms in place, and that the program is 
compatible with the enterprise architecture of the Department of 
Justice.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 210.  The notification thresholds and procedures set 
forth in section 505 of this Act shall apply to deviations from the 
amounts designated for specific activities in this Act and in the 
report accompanying this Act, and to any use of deobligated balances of 
funds provided under this title in previous years.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 211.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may 
be used to plan for, begin, continue, finish, process, or approve a 
public-private competition under the Office of Management and Budget 
Circular A-76 or any successor administrative regulation, directive, or 
policy for work performed by employees of Federal Prison Industries, 
Incorporated.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
funds shall be available for the salary, benefits, or expenses of any 
United States Attorney assigned dual or additional responsibilities by 
the Attorney General or his designee that exempt that United States 
Attorney from the residency requirements of section 545 of title 28, 
United States Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 213.  At the discretion of the Attorney General, and 
in addition to any amounts that otherwise may be available (or 
authorized to be made available) by law, with respect to funds 
appropriated by this title under the headings ``Violence Against Women 
Prevention and Prosecution Programs'', ``State and Local Law 
Enforcement Assistance'', ``Juvenile Justice Programs'', and 
``Community Oriented Policing Services Programs''--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) up to 3 percent of funds made available to the 
        Office of Justice Programs for grant or reimbursement programs 
        may be used by such Office to provide training and technical 
        assistance; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) funds made available for grant or 
        reimbursement programs under such headings, except for amounts 
        appropriated specifically for research, evaluation, or 
        statistical programs administered by the National Institute of 
        Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, may be 
        transferred to and merged with funds provided to the National 
        Institute of Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, to 
        be used by them for research, evaluation, or statistical 
        purposes, without regard to the authorizations for such grant 
        or reimbursement programs:  Provided, That the transfer 
        authority in this paragraph is in addition to any other 
        transfer authority contained in this Act:  Provided further, 
        That any transfer pursuant to this subsection shall be subject 
        to the notification procedures applicable to a reprogramming of 
        funds under section 505 of this Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 214.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
section 20109(a) of subtitle A of title II of the Violent Crime Control 
and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13709(a)) shall not apply to 
amounts made available by this or any other Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 215.  None of the funds made available under this or 
any other Act, for fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter, 
other than for the national instant criminal background check system 
established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention 
Act (18 U.S.C. 922 note), may be used by a Federal law enforcement 
officer to facilitate the transfer of an operable firearm to an 
individual if the Federal law enforcement officer knows or suspects 
that the individual is an agent of a drug cartel, unless law 
enforcement personnel of the United States continuously monitor or 
control the firearm at all times.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 216. (a) None of the income retained in the 
Department of Justice Working Capital Fund pursuant to title I of 
Public Law 102-140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be 
available for obligation during fiscal year 2016, except up to 
$40,000,000 may be obligated for implementation of a unified Department 
of Justice financial management system.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Not to exceed $30,000,000 of the unobligated balances 
transferred to the capital account of the Department of Justice Working 
Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102-140 (105 Stat. 784; 
28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be available for obligation in fiscal year 
2016, and any use, obligation, transfer or allocation of such funds 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this 
Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Any use, obligation, transfer or allocation of excess 
unobligated balances available under section 524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, 
United States Code, shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under 
section 505 of this Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (d) Of amounts available in the Assets Forfeiture Fund in 
fiscal year 2016, $154,700,000 shall be for payments associated with 
joint law enforcement operations as authorized by section 524(c)(1)(I) 
of title 28, United States Code, and $20,514,000 shall be for payments 
associated with subparagraphs (B), (F), and (G) of section 524(c)(1) of 
title 28, United States Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (e) The Attorney General shall submit a spending plan to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act detailing the planned distribution of Assets Forfeiture Fund joint 
law enforcement operations funding during fiscal year 2016.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 217. (a) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under 
each of the headings ``General Administration--Salaries and Expenses'', 
``United States Marshals Service--Salaries and Expenses'', ``Federal 
Bureau of Investigation--Salaries and Expenses'', ``Drug Enforcement 
Administration--Salaries and Expenses'', and ``Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives--Salaries and Expenses'', $20,000,000 
shall not be available for obligation until the Attorney General 
demonstrates to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate that all recommendations included in the 
Office of Inspector General of the Department of Justice, Evaluation 
and Inspections Division Report 15-04 entitled ``The Handling of Sexual 
Harassment and Misconduct Allegations by the Department's Law 
Enforcement Components'', dated March, 2015, have been implemented or 
are in the process of being implemented.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The Inspector General of the Department of Justice 
shall report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act on the status of the Department's implementation 
of recommendations included in the report specified in subsection 
(a).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE III</DELETED>

                       <DELETED>SCIENCE</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Office of Science and Technology Policy</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science 
and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 
U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to 
exceed $2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, and 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, 
$5,555,000.</DELETED>

    <DELETED>National Aeronautics and Space Administration</DELETED>

                       <DELETED>science</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of science research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $5,237,500,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided,That the formulation and development 
costs (with development cost as defined under section 30104 of title 
51, United States Code) for the James Webb Space Telescope shall not 
exceed $8,000,000,000:  Provided further, That should the individual 
identified under subsection (c)(2)(E) of section 30104 of title 51, 
United States Code, as responsible for the James Webb Space Telescope 
determine that the development cost of the program is likely to exceed 
that limitation, the individual shall immediately notify the 
Administrator and the increase shall be treated as if it meets the 30 
percent threshold described in subsection (f) of section 30104:  
Provided further, That, $140,000,000 shall be for a Jupiter Europa 
mission to assure progress on a mission which meets the Planetary 
Science decadal objectives, consisting of an orbiter and studies of 
both a surface element as well as sample analysis of plumes emanating 
from the surface:  Provided further, That NASA shall use the Space 
Launch System as the launch vehicle for a Jupiter Europa mission, plan 
for a launch no later than 2022, and include in the fiscal year 2017 
budget the 5 year funding profile necessary to achieve those 
goals.</DELETED>

                     <DELETED>aeronautics</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of aeronautics research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $600,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>space technology</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of space technology research and development 
activities, including research, development, operations, support, and 
services; maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space 
flight, spacecraft control, and communications activities; program 
management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 
5, United States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and 
operation of mission and administrative aircraft, $625,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017, of which $25,000,000 shall 
be for icy satellites surface technology and test beds.</DELETED>

                     <DELETED>exploration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of exploration research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $4,759,300,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That not less than $1,096,300,000 shall 
be for the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle:  Provided further, That 
not less than $2,313,000,000 shall be for the Space Launch System, 
including no less than $1,850,000,000 for launch vehicle development, 
which shall have a lift capability not less than 130 metric tons and 
which shall have core elements and an enhanced upper stage developed 
simultaneously:  Provided further, That of the amounts provided for 
launch vehicle development, no less than $50,000,000 shall be for 
enhanced upper stage development:  Provided further, That of the funds 
made available for the Space Launch System, $410,000,000 shall be for 
exploration ground systems and $53,000,000 shall be for program 
integration:  Provided further, That $1,000,000,000 shall be for 
commercial spaceflight activities:  Provided further, That $350,000,000 
shall be for exploration research and development.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>space operations</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of space operations research and development 
activities, including research, development, operations, support and 
services; space flight, spacecraft control and communications 
activities, including operations, production, and services; maintenance 
and repair, facility planning and design; program management; personnel 
and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $3,957,300,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>education</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of aerospace and aeronautical education research 
and development activities, including research, development, 
operations, support, and services; program management; personnel and 
related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized 
by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel 
expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, 
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $119,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017, of which $18,000,000 shall be for the Experimental 
Program to Stimulate Competitive Research and $40,000,000 shall be for 
the National Space Grant College program.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>safety, security and mission services</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the 
conduct and support of science, aeronautics, space technology, 
exploration, space operations and education research and development 
activities, including research, development, operations, support, and 
services; maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space 
flight, spacecraft control, and communications activities; program 
management; personnel and related costs, including uniforms or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 
5, United States Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $63,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and 
operation of mission and administrative aircraft, $2,768,600,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>construction and environmental compliance and 
                         restoration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for construction of facilities 
including repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and modification of 
facilities, construction of new facilities and additions to existing 
facilities, facility planning and design, and restoration, and 
acquisition or condemnation of real property, as authorized by law, and 
environmental compliance and restoration, $425,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That proceeds from 
leases deposited into this account shall be available for a period of 5 
years to the extent and in amounts as provided in annual appropriations 
Acts:  Provided further, That notwithstanding section 20145(b)(2)(A) of 
title 51, United States Code, such proceeds referred to in the 
preceding proviso shall be available for obligation for fiscal year 
2016 in an amount not to exceed $9,470,300:  Provided further, That 
each annual budget request shall include an annual estimate of gross 
receipts and collections and proposed use of all funds collected 
pursuant to section 20145 of title 51, United States Code.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>office of inspector general</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $37,400,000, of 
which $500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2017.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>administrative provisions</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including transfers of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Funds for any announced prize otherwise authorized shall 
remain available, without fiscal year limitation, until the prize is 
claimed or the offer is withdrawn.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by 
any such transfers. Balances so transferred shall be merged with and 
available for the same purposes and the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred. Any transfer pursuant to this 
provision shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    The spending plan required by this Act shall be provided 
by NASA at the theme, program, project and activity level. The spending 
plan, as well as any subsequent change of an amount established in that 
spending plan that meets the notification requirements of section 505 
of this Act, shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of 
this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    The unexpired balances of a previous account, for 
activities for which funds are provided in this Act, may be transferred 
to the new account established in this Act that provides for such 
activities. Balances so transferred shall be merged with the funds in 
the newly established account, but shall be available under the same 
terms, conditions and period of time as previously 
appropriated.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>National Science Foundation</DELETED>

           <DELETED>research and related activities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National 
Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public Law 
86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized by section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code; maintenance and operation of aircraft 
and purchase of flight services for research support; acquisition of 
aircraft; and authorized travel; $5,983,645,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017, of which not to exceed $520,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for polar research and operations 
support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for 
operational and science support and logistical and other related 
activities for the United States Antarctic program:  Provided, That 
receipts for scientific support services and materials furnished by the 
National Research Centers and other National Science Foundation 
supported research facilities may be credited to this 
appropriation.</DELETED>

<DELETED>major research equipment and facilities construction</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, facilities, 
and other such capital assets pursuant to the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including authorized 
travel, $200,030,000, to remain available until expended.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>education and human resources</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses in carrying out science, 
mathematics and engineering education and human resources programs and 
activities pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 
U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including services as authorized by section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, authorized travel, and rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $866,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>agency operations and award management</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For agency operations and award management necessary in 
carrying out the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 
1861 et seq.); services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United 
States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
States Code; rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; 
and reimbursement of the Department of Homeland Security for security 
guard services; $325,000,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $8,280 is 
for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That contracts may be entered into under this heading in fiscal year 
2016 for maintenance and operation of facilities and for other services 
to be provided during the next fiscal year:  Provided further, That of 
the amount provided for costs associated with the acquisition, 
occupancy, and related costs of new headquarters space, not more than 
$27,370,000 shall remain available until expended.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>office of the national science board</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, 
authorized travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia, and the employment of 
experts and consultants under section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code) involved in carrying out section 4 of the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86-209 (42 
U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), $4,370,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 
shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>office of inspector general</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General 
as authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, $15,160,000, of 
which $400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2017.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>administrative provision</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the National Science 
Foundation in this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, 
but no such appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by 
any such transfers. Any transfer pursuant to this section shall be 
treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and 
shall not be available for obligation except in compliance with the 
procedures set forth in that section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations 
Act, 2016''.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE IV</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>RELATED AGENCIES</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Commission on Civil Rights</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, $9,200,000:  Provided, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to 
employ in excess of four full-time individuals under Schedule C of the 
Excepted Service exclusive of one special assistant for each 
Commissioner:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 
75 billable days, with the exception of the chairperson, who is 
permitted 125 billable days:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be used for any activity or 
expense that is not explicitly authorized by section 3 of the Civil 
Rights Commission Act of 1983 (42 U.S.C. 1975a).</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Equal Employment Opportunity Commission</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Equal Pay Act of 
1963, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, section 501 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic 
Information Non-Discrimination Act (GINA) of 2008 (Public Law 110-233), 
the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-325), and the Lilly 
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-2), including services 
as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles as authorized by section 1343(b) of title 31, 
United States Code; nonmonetary awards to private citizens; and up to 
$29,500,000 for payments to State and local enforcement agencies for 
authorized services to the Commission, $364,500,000:  Provided, That 
the Commission is authorized to make available for official reception 
and representation expenses not to exceed $2,250 from available funds:  
Provided further, That the Chair is authorized to accept and use any 
gift or donation to carry out the work of the Commission.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>International Trade Commission</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the International Trade 
Commission, including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and not to 
exceed $2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, 
$84,500,000 (increased by $2,000,000), to remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Legal Services Corporation</DELETED>

      <DELETED>payment to the legal services corporation</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out 
the purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, 
$300,000,000, of which $266,900,000 is for basic field programs and 
required independent audits; $5,100,000 is for the Office of Inspector 
General, of which such amounts as may be necessary may be used to 
conduct additional audits of recipients; $19,000,000 is for management 
and grants oversight; $4,000,000 is for client self-help and 
information technology; $4,000,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund; 
and $1,000,000 is for loan repayment assistance:  Provided, That the 
Legal Services Corporation may continue to provide locality pay to 
officers and employees at a rate no greater than that provided by the 
Federal Government to Washington, DC-based employees as authorized by 
section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, notwithstanding section 
1005(d) of the Legal Services Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 2996(d)):  
Provided further, That the authorities provided in section 205 of this 
Act shall be applicable to the Legal Services Corporation:  Provided 
further, That, for the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the Legal 
Services Corporation shall be considered an agency of the United States 
Government.</DELETED>

<DELETED>administrative provision--legal services corporation</DELETED>

<DELETED>    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal 
Services Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or 
limited by, or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 
503, 504, 505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds 
appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be 
subject to the same terms and conditions set forth in such sections, 
except that all references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 
shall be deemed to refer instead to 2015 and 2016, 
respectively.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Marine Mammal Commission</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
authorized by title II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1361 et seq.), $3,340,000.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>Office of the United States Trade Representative</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States 
Trade Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles 
and the employment of experts and consultants as authorized by section 
3109 of title 5, United States Code, $54,250,000, of which $1,000,000 
shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$124,000 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>State Justice Institute</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
authorized by the State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 1984 (42 
U.S.C. 10701 et seq.) $5,121,000, of which $500,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$2,250 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses:  Provided further, That, for the purposes of section 505 of 
this Act, the State Justice Institute shall be considered an agency of 
the United States Government.</DELETED>

                       <DELETED>TITLE V</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>GENERAL PROVISIONS</DELETED>

               <DELETED>(including rescissions)</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized 
by the Congress.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal 
year unless expressly so provided herein.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 503.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant 
to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant 
to existing law.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 504.  If any provision of this Act or the application 
of such provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, 
the remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to 
persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held 
invalid shall not be affected thereby.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 505.  None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by 
this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2016, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates or initiates a new 
program, project or activity; (2) eliminates a program, project or 
activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any project 
or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted; (4) 
relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes or renames offices, 
programs or activities; (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions 
or activities presently performed by Federal employees; (7) augments 
existing programs, projects or activities in excess of $500,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less, or reduces by 10 percent funding for any 
program, project or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent; or 
(8) results from any general savings, including savings from a 
reduction in personnel, which would result in a change in existing 
programs, projects or activities as approved by Congress; unless the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in 
advance of such reprogramming of funds by agencies (excluding agencies 
of the Department of Justice) funded by this Act and 45 days in advance 
of such reprogramming of funds by agencies of the Department of Justice 
funded by this Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 506. (a) If it has been finally determined by a court 
or Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing 
a ``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b)(1) To the extent practicable, with respect to 
authorized purchases of promotional items, funds made available by this 
Act shall be used to purchase items that are manufactured, produced, or 
assembled in the United States, its territories or 
possessions.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (2) The term ``promotional items'' has the meaning given 
the term in OMB Circular A-87, Attachment B, Item (1)(f)(3).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 507. (a) The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the 
National Science Foundation, and the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate a quarterly report on the 
status of balances of appropriations at the account level. For 
unobligated, uncommitted balances and unobligated, committed balances 
the quarterly reports shall separately identify the amounts 
attributable to each source year of appropriation from which the 
balances were derived. For balances that are obligated, but unexpended, 
the quarterly reports shall separately identify amounts by the year of 
obligation.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The report described in subsection (a) shall be 
submitted within 30 days of the end of each quarter.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) If a department or agency is unable to fulfill any 
aspect of a reporting requirement described in subsection (a) due to a 
limitation of a current accounting system, the department or agency 
shall fulfill such aspect to the maximum extent practicable under such 
accounting system and shall identify and describe in each quarterly 
report the extent to which such aspect is not fulfilled.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 508.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency 
funded under this Act resulting from, or to prevent, personnel actions 
taken in response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be 
absorbed within the total budgetary resources available to such 
department or agency:  Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act:  Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this 
section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
Provided further, That for the Department of Commerce, this section 
shall also apply to actions taken for the care and protection of loan 
collateral or grant property.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 509.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, 
or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign country of 
restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except 
for restrictions which are not applied equally to all tobacco or 
tobacco products of the same type.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel of the 
Department of Justice to obligate more than $2,705,164,000 during 
fiscal year 2016 from the fund established by section 1402 of Public 
Law 98-473 (42 U.S.C. 10601).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available to the 
Department of Justice in this Act may be used to discriminate against 
or denigrate the religious or moral beliefs of students who participate 
in programs for which financial assistance is provided from those 
funds, or of the parents or legal guardians of such students.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or 
transfer authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations 
Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 513.  Any funds provided in this Act used to 
implement E-Government Initiatives shall be subject to the procedures 
set forth in section 505 of this Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 514. (a) The Inspectors General of the Department of 
Commerce, the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, the National Science Foundation, and the Legal Services 
Corporation shall conduct audits, pursuant to the Inspector General Act 
(5 U.S.C. App.), of grants or contracts for which funds are 
appropriated by this Act, and shall submit reports to Congress on the 
progress of such audits, which may include preliminary findings and a 
description of areas of particular interest, within 180 days after 
initiating such an audit and every 180 days thereafter until any such 
audit is completed.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Within 60 days after the date on which an audit 
described in subsection (a) by an Inspector General is completed, the 
Secretary, Attorney General, Administrator, Director, or President, as 
appropriate, shall make the results of the audit available to the 
public on the Internet website maintained by the Department, 
Administration, Foundation, or Corporation, respectively. The results 
shall be made available in redacted form to exclude--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) any matter described in section 552(b) of 
        title 5, United States Code; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) sensitive personal information for any 
        individual, the public access to which could be used to commit 
        identity theft or for other inappropriate or unlawful 
        purposes.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Any person awarded a grant or contract funded by 
amounts appropriated by this Act shall submit a statement to the 
Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General, the Administrator, 
Director, or President, as appropriate, certifying that no funds 
derived from the grant or contract will be made available through a 
subcontract or in any other manner to another person who has a 
financial interest in the person awarded the grant or 
contract.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (d) The provisions of the preceding subsections of this 
section shall take effect 30 days after the date on which the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the 
Director of the Office of Government Ethics, determines that a uniform 
set of rules and requirements, substantially similar to the 
requirements in such subsections, consistently apply under the 
executive branch ethics program to all Federal departments, agencies, 
and entities.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 515. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available under this Act may be used by the Departments of 
Commerce and Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, or the National Science Foundation to acquire or renew 
a high-impact or moderate-impact information system, as defined for 
security categorization in the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology's (NIST) Federal Information Processing Standard Publication 
199, ``Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and 
Information Systems'' unless the agency has--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the 
        information systems against criteria developed by NIST and the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to inform acquisition 
        decisions for high-impact and moderate-impact information 
        systems within the Federal Government;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the 
        presumptive awardee against available and relevant threat 
        information provided by the FBI and other appropriate agencies; 
        and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) in consultation with the FBI or other 
        appropriate Federal entity, conducted an assessment of any risk 
        of cyber-espionage or sabotage associated with the acquisition 
        of such system, including any risk associated with such system 
        being produced, manufactured, or assembled by one or more 
        entities identified by the United States Government as posing a 
        cyber threat, including but not limited to, those that may be 
        owned, directed, or subsidized by the People's Republic of 
        China.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact or 
moderate-impact information system reviewed and assessed under 
subsection (a) unless the head of the assessing entity described in 
subsection (a) has--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) developed, in consultation with NIST, the FBI 
        and supply chain risk management experts, a mitigation strategy 
        for any identified risks;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) determined, in consultation with NIST and the 
        FBI, that the acquisition of such system is in the national 
        interest of the United States; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) reported that determination to the Committees 
        on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
        Senate and the agency Inspector General.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 516.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
shall be used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the use of 
torture by any official or contract employee of the United States 
Government.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 517. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
or treaty, in fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this Act or 
any other Act may be expended or obligated by a department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States to pay administrative expenses or 
to compensate an officer or employee of the United States in connection 
with requiring an export license for the export to Canada of 
components, parts, accessories or attachments for firearms listed in 
Category I, section 121.1 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations 
(International Trafficking in Arms Regulations (ITAR), part 121, as it 
existed on April 1, 2005) with a total value not exceeding $500 
wholesale in any transaction, provided that the conditions of 
subsection (b) of this section are met by the exporting party for such 
articles.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The foregoing exemption from obtaining an export 
license--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) does not exempt an exporter from filing any 
        Shipper's Export Declaration or notification letter required by 
        law, or from being otherwise eligible under the laws of the 
        United States to possess, ship, transport, or export the 
        articles enumerated in subsection (a); and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) does not permit the export without a license 
        of--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) fully automatic firearms and 
                components and parts for such firearms, other than for 
                end use by the Federal Government, or a Provincial or 
                Municipal Government of Canada;</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) 
                or complete breech mechanisms for any firearm listed in 
                Category I, other than for end use by the Federal 
                Government, or a Provincial or Municipal Government of 
                Canada; or</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) articles for export from Canada to 
                another foreign destination.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) In accordance with this section, the District 
Directors of Customs and postmasters shall permit the permanent or 
temporary export without a license of any unclassified articles 
specified in subsection (a) to Canada for end use in Canada or return 
to the United States, or temporary import of Canadian-origin items from 
Canada for end use in the United States or return to Canada for a 
Canadian citizen.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (d) The President may require export licenses under this 
section on a temporary basis if the President determines, upon 
publication first in the Federal Register, that the Government of 
Canada has implemented or maintained inadequate import controls for the 
articles specified in subsection (a), such that a significant diversion 
of such articles has and continues to take place for use in 
international terrorism or in the escalation of a conflict in another 
nation. The President shall terminate the requirements of a license 
when reasons for the temporary requirements have ceased.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 518.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter, no department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the United States receiving appropriated 
funds under this Act or any other Act shall obligate or expend in any 
way such funds to pay administrative expenses or the compensation of 
any officer or employee of the United States to deny any application 
submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified pursuant to 
27 CFR section 478.112 or .113, for a permit to import United States 
origin ``curios or relics'' firearms, parts, or ammunition.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 519.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade 
agreement the text of--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United 
        States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United 
        States-Australia Free Trade Agreement; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United 
        States-Morocco Free Trade Agreement.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 520.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to authorize or issue a national security letter in 
contravention of any of the following laws authorizing the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation to issue national security letters: The Right 
to Financial Privacy Act; The Electronic Communications Privacy Act; 
The Fair Credit Reporting Act; The National Security Act of 1947; USA 
PATRIOT Act; and the laws amended by these Acts.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 521.  If at any time during any quarter, the program 
manager of a project within the jurisdiction of the Departments of 
Commerce or Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 
or the National Science Foundation totaling more than $75,000,000 has 
reasonable cause to believe that the total program cost has increased 
by 10 percent or more, the program manager shall immediately inform the 
respective Secretary, Administrator, or Director. The Secretary, 
Administrator, or Director shall notify the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations within 30 days in writing of such increase, and shall 
include in such notice: the date on which such determination was made; 
a statement of the reasons for such increases; the action taken and 
proposed to be taken to control future cost growth of the project; 
changes made in the performance or schedule milestones and the degree 
to which such changes have contributed to the increase in total program 
costs or procurement costs; new estimates of the total project or 
procurement costs; and a statement validating that the project's 
management structure is adequate to control total project or 
procurement costs.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 522.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made 
available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence or 
intelligence related activities are deemed to be specifically 
authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2016 until the 
enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for fiscal year 
2016.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 523.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act may be used to enter into a contract in an 
amount greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in excess of such 
amount unless the prospective contractor or grantee certifies in 
writing to the agency awarding the contract or grant that, to the best 
of its knowledge and belief, the contractor or grantee has filed all 
Federal tax returns required during the three years preceding the 
certification, has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more than 90 days prior to 
certification, been notified of any unpaid Federal tax assessment for 
which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the 
subject of an installment agreement or offer in compromise that has 
been approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or 
the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous administrative or 
judicial proceeding.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED> (rescissions)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 524. (a) Of the unobligated balances from prior year 
appropriations available to the Department of Commerce's National 
Technical Information Service, $10,000,000 are rescinded.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Of the unobligated balances available to the 
Department of Justice, the following funds are hereby rescinded, not 
later than September 30, 2016, from the following accounts in the 
specified amounts--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) ``Working Capital Fund'', 
        $100,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) ``United States Marshals Service, Federal 
        Prisoner Detention'', $69,500,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) ``Federal Bureau of Investigation, Salaries 
        and Expenses'', $120,000,000 from fines collected to defray 
        expenses for the automation of fingerprint identification and 
        criminal justice information services and associated 
        costs;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, 
        Office on Violence Against Women, Violence Against Women 
        Prevention and Prosecution Programs'', $15,000,000;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, 
        Office of Justice Programs'', $40,000,000; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (6) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, 
        Community Oriented Policing Services'', $20,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) The Department of Justice shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a report no later than September 1, 2016, specifying the amount 
of each rescission made pursuant to subsection (b).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 525.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to purchase first class or premium airline travel in 
contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41 of 
the Code of Federal Regulations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 526.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 
employees from a Federal department or agency at any single conference 
occurring outside the United States unless such conference is a law 
enforcement training or operational conference for law enforcement 
personnel and the majority of Federal employees in attendance are law 
enforcement personnel stationed outside the United States.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 527.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available in this or any other Act may be used to transfer, 
release, or assist in the transfer or release to or within the United 
States, its territories, or possessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any 
other detainee who--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at 
        the United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the 
        Department of Defense.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 528. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available in this or any other Act may be used to construct, 
acquire, or modify any facility in the United States, its territories, 
or possessions to house any individual described in subsection (c) for 
the purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
effective control of the Department of Defense.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
any modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any 
individual who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval 
Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a 
        member of the Armed Forces of the United States; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) is--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) in the custody or under the effective 
                control of the Department of Defense; or</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) otherwise under detention at United 
                States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 529.  To the extent practicable, funds made available 
in this Act should be used to purchase light bulbs that are ``Energy 
Star'' qualified or have the ``Federal Energy Management Program'' 
designation.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 530.  The Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall instruct any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States receiving funds appropriated under this Act to track 
undisbursed balances in expired grant accounts and include in its 
annual performance plan and performance and accountability reports the 
following:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Details on future action the department, 
        agency, or instrumentality will take to resolve undisbursed 
        balances in expired grant accounts.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) The method that the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality uses to track undisbursed balances in expired 
        grant accounts.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) Identification of undisbursed balances in 
        expired grant accounts that may be returned to the Treasury of 
        the United States.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) In the preceding 3 fiscal years, details on 
        the total number of expired grant accounts with undisbursed 
        balances (on the first day of each fiscal year) for the 
        department, agency, or instrumentality and the total finances 
        that have not been obligated to a specific project remaining in 
        the accounts.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 531. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
(NASA) or the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) to 
develop, design, plan, promulgate, implement, or execute a bilateral 
policy, program, order, or contract of any kind to participate, 
collaborate, or coordinate bilaterally in any way with China or any 
Chinese-owned company unless such activities are specifically 
authorized by a law enacted after the date of enactment of this 
Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to effectuate the hosting of official Chinese visitors at 
facilities belonging to or utilized by NASA.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) The limitations described in subsections (a) and (b) 
shall not apply to activities which NASA or OSTP has certified--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer of 
        technology, data, or other information with national security 
        or economic security implications to China or a Chinese-owned 
        company; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) will not involve knowing interactions with 
        officials who have been determined by the United States to have 
        direct involvement with violations of human rights.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (d) Any certification made under subsection (c) shall be 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, and the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation, no later than 30 days prior to the activity in question 
and shall include a description of the purpose of the activity, its 
agenda, its major participants, and its location and timing.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 532.  None of the funds made available by this or any 
other Act, for fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter, may be 
used to pay the salaries or expenses of personnel to deny, or fail to 
act on, an application for the importation of any model of shotgun if--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) all other requirements of law with respect to 
        the proposed importation are met; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) no application for the importation of such 
        model of shotgun, in the same configuration, had been denied by 
        the Attorney General prior to January 1, 2011, on the basis 
        that the shotgun was not particularly suitable for or readily 
        adaptable to sporting purposes.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 533. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such 
network blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of 
pornography.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, adjudication, or other law-enforcement related 
activity.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 534.  The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Science 
Foundation, the Commission on Civil Rights, the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission, the International Trade Commission, the Legal 
Services Corporation, the Marine Mammal Commission, the Offices of 
Science and Technology Policy and the United States Trade 
Representative, and the State Justice Institute shall submit spending 
plans, signed by the respective department or agency head, to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate within 45 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 535.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty until 
the Senate approves a resolution of ratification for the 
Treaty.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 536.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to relinquish the responsibility of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration with respect to 
Internet domain name system functions, including responsibility with 
respect to the authoritative root zone file and the Internet Assigned 
Numbers Authority functions.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 537.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to require a person licensed under section 923 of title 18, 
United States Code, to report information to the Department of Justice 
regarding the sale of multiple rifles or shotguns to the same 
person.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 538.  No funds provided in this Act shall be used to 
deny the Inspectors General of the Departments of Commerce and Justice, 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the National 
Science Foundation timely access to all records, documents, and other 
materials in the custody or possession of the respective department or 
agency or to prevent or impede the particular Inspector General's 
access to such records, documents, and other materials, unless in 
accordance with an express limitation of section 6(a) of the Inspector 
General Act, as amended, consistent with the plain language of the 
Inspector General Act, as amended. The Inspectors General of the 
Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, and the National Science Foundation shall report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate within five calendar days any failures to comply with this 
requirement.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 539.  The Department of Commerce, the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Science Foundation, 
and the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall provide a monthly 
report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on any official travel to China by any 
employee of such Department or agency, including the purpose of such 
travel.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 540. (a) No funds made available in this Act may be 
used to facilitate, permit, license, or promote exports to the Cuban 
military or intelligence service or to any officer of the Cuban 
military or intelligence service, or an immediate family member 
thereof.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) This section does not apply to exports of goods 
permitted under the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act 
of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) In this section--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the term ``Cuban military or intelligence 
        service'' includes, but is not limited to, the Ministry of the 
        Revolutionary Armed Forces, and the Ministry of the Interior, 
        of Cuba, and any subsidiary of either such Ministry; 
        and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the term ``immediate family member'' means a 
        spouse, sibling, son, daughter, parent, grandparent, 
        grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece, or nephew.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 541.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be expended during fiscal year 2016 for the shutdown of the 
Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy or for the preparation 
therefor.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>spending reduction account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 542.  The amount by which the applicable allocation 
of new budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority 
is $0 (increased by $1,000,000).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 543.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used by the Department of Commerce, the Department of Justice, 
or any other Federal agency to lease or purchase new light duty 
vehicles for any executive fleet, or for an agency's fleet inventory, 
except in accordance with Presidential Memorandum--Federal Fleet 
Performance, dated May 24, 2011.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 544. (a) Except as provided by subsection (b), none 
of the funds made available by this Act for the Department of Justice 
or the Federal Bureau of Investigation may be used to mandate or 
request that a person (as defined in section 101(m) of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801(m)) alter the 
product or service of the person to permit the electronic surveillance 
(as defined in section 101(f) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 1801(f)) of any 
user of such product or service.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to 
mandates or requests authorized under the Communications Assistance for 
Law Enforcement Act (47 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 545.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to execute a subpoena of tangible things pursuant to 
section 506 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 876) that does 
not include the following sentence: ``This subpoena limits the 
collection of any tangible things (including phone numbers dialed, 
telephone numbers of incoming calls, and the duration of calls) to 
those tangible things identified by a term that specifically identifies 
an individual, account, address, or personal device, and that limits, 
to the greatest extent reasonably practicable, the scope of the 
tangible things sought.''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 546.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to enforce section 221 of title 13, United States Code, 
with respect to the survey, conducted by the Secretary of Commerce, 
commonly referred to as the ``American Community Survey''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 547.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel of the 
Department of Justice to negotiate or conclude a settlement with the 
Federal Government that includes terms requiring the defendant to 
donate or contribute funds to an organization or individual.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 548.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to propose or to issue a rule that would change the Chief 
Law Enforcement Officer certificate requirement in a manner that has 
the same substance as the proposed rule published on September 9, 2013 
(786 Fed. Reg. 55014).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 549.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used by the Department of Justice in violation of--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the 
        United States Constitution; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) to repeal the guidance provided in the 
        memorandum issued by the Attorney General on March 31, 2015, 
        and entitled ``Guidance Regarding the Use of Asset Forfeiture 
        Authorities in Connection with Structuring 
        Offenses''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 550.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to require, pursuant to section 478.124 of title 27, or 
section 25.7 of title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, or the Office of 
Management and Budget Statistical Policy Directive No. 15, Race and 
Ethnic Standards for Federal Statistics and Administrative Reporting, 
that any person disclose the race or ethnicity of the person in 
connection with the transfer of a firearm to the person.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 551.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to negotiate or enter into a trade agreement that 
establishes a limit on greenhouse gas emissions for the United States. 
The limitation described in this section shall not apply in the case of 
the administration of a tax or tariff.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 552.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to enter into a contract with any offeror or any of its 
principals if the offeror certifies, as required by Federal Acquisition 
Regulation, that the offeror or any of its principals--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) within a 3-year period preceding this offer 
        has been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against 
        it for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection 
        with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public 
        (Federal, State, or local) contract or subcontract; violation 
        of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to the 
        submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, 
        forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, 
        making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal 
        criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) are presently indicted for, or otherwise 
        criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with, 
        commission of any of the offenses enumerated above in paragraph 
        (1); or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) within a 3-year period preceding this offer, 
        has been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount 
        that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains 
        unsatisfied.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 553.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to treat any M855 (5.56 mm x 45 mm) or SS109 type 
ammunition as armor piercing ammunition for purposes of chapter 44 of 
title 18, United States Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 554.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to implement the United States Global Climate Research 
Program's National Climate Assessment, the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change's Fifth Assessment Report, the United Nation's Agenda 21 
sustainable development plan, or the May 2013 Technical Update of the 
Social Cost of Carbon for Regulatory Impact Analysis under Executive 
Order No. 12866.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 555.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used for the Department of Justice's clemency initiative 
announced on April 23, 2014, or for Clemency Project 2014, or to 
transfer or temporarily assign employees to the Office of the Pardon 
Attorney for the purpose of screening clemency applications.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 556.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to 
enforce--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Amendment 40 to the Fishery Management Plan 
        for the Reef Fish Resources of the Gulf of Mexico published in 
        the Federal Register on April 22, 2015, or any other effort of 
        the same substance; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Red Snapper Management Measures published in 
        the Federal Register on May 1, 2015, or any other effort of the 
        same substance that establishes an annual catch limits or 
        annual catch targets for Red Snapper that would result in the 
        commercial fishing for Red Snapper in the Federal waters of the 
        Gulf of Mexico lasting longer than 5 times the number of days 
        recreational fishers are allowed to catch and retain at least 2 
        such fish each day in such Federal waters.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 557.  None of the funds made available in this Act to 
the Department of Justice may be used to prevent a State from 
implementing its own State laws that authorize the use, distribution, 
possession, or cultivation of industrial hemp, as defined in section 
7606 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 558.  None of the funds made available in this Act to 
the Department of Justice may be used, with respect to any of the 
States of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, 
Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, 
Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, 
Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New 
Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, Rhode Island, South 
Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, and 
Wisconsin, or with respect to either the District of Columbia or Guam, 
to prevent any of them from implementing their own laws that authorize 
the use, distribution, possession, or cultivation of medical 
marijuana.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 559.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to compel a person to testify about information or sources 
that the person states in a motion to quash the subpoena that he has 
obtained as a journalist or reporter and that he regards as 
confidential.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 560.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to take any action to prevent a State from implementing any 
law that makes it lawful to possess, distribute, or use cannabidiol or 
cannabidiol oil.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 561.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used by the Department of Justice to enforce the Fair Housing 
Act in a manner that relies upon an allegation of liability under 
section 100.500 of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 562.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to carry out the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and 
Explosives Special Advisory entitled ``Test, Examination and 
Classification of 7N6 5.45 x 39 Ammunition'', dated April 7, 2014. The 
limitation described in this section shall not apply in the case of the 
administration of a tax or tariff.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 563.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to operate or disseminate a cell-site simulator or IMSI 
catcher in the United States except pursuant to a court order that 
identifies an individual, account, address, or personal 
device.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 564.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to prosecute or hold liable any person or corporation for a 
violation of section 2(a) of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 
703(a)).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 565.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to carry out the program known as ``Operation Choke 
Point''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 566.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to negotiate or finalize a trade agreement that includes 
provisions relating to visas issued under section 101(a)(15) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)). The limitation 
described in this section shall not apply in the case of the 
administration of a tax or tariff.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 567.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used in contravention of section 7606 (``Legitimacy of 
Industrial Hemp Research'') of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 
113-79) by the Department of Justice or the Drug Enforcement 
Administration.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 568.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to treat ammunition as armor piercing for purposes of 
chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, except for ammunition 
designed and intended for use in a handgun (in accordance with 18 
U.S.C. section 921(a)(17)).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 569.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used by the National Institute of Standards and Technology to 
consult with the National Security Agency or the Central Intelligence 
Agency to alter cryptographic or computer standards, except to improve 
information security (in accordance with section 20(c)(1)(A) of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-
3(c)(1)(A))).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 570.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to implement Executive Order No. 13547 (75 Fed. Reg. 43023, 
relating to the stewardship of oceans, coasts, and the Great Lakes), 
including the National Ocean Policy developed under such Executive 
order.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 571.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used with respect to the case State of Texas, et al. v. United 
States of America, et al. (No. B-14-254 in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of Texas and No. 15-40238 in the United 
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 572.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
under the heading ``Department of Justice--Office of Justice Programs--
State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance'' may be used in 
contravention of section 642(a) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and 
Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1373(a)).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 573.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to 
implement in the California Central Valley Recovery Domain any existing 
recovery plan for salmon and steelhead populations listed under the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) as threatened 
species or endangered species if that recovery plan does not address 
predation by non-native species.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Commerce, Justice, Science, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016''.</DELETED>
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for Departments of Commerce and 
Justice, and Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2016, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                     operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, and for engaging in trade 
promotional activities abroad, including expenses of grants and 
cooperative agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United 
States firms, without regard to sections 3702 and 3703 of title 44, 
United States Code; full medical coverage for dependent members of 
immediate families of employees stationed overseas and employees 
temporarily posted overseas; travel and transportation of employees of 
the International Trade Administration between two points abroad, 
without regard to section 40118 of title 49, United States Code; 
employment of citizens of the United States and aliens by contract for 
services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding 10 years, 
and expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or 
construction of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use 
abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first 
paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, when such 
claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $294,300 for official 
representation expenses abroad; purchase of passenger motor vehicles 
for official use abroad, not to exceed $45,000 per vehicle; obtaining 
insurance on official motor vehicles; and rental of tie lines, 
$473,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, of which 
$10,000,000 is to be derived from fees to be retained and used by the 
International Trade Administration, notwithstanding section 3302 of 
title 31, United States Code:  Provided, That, of amounts provided 
under this heading, not less than $16,400,000 shall be for China 
antidumping and countervailing duty enforcement and compliance 
activities:  Provided further, That the provisions of the first 
sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 
2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities; and that for the 
purpose of this Act, contributions under the provisions of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 shall include payment for 
assessments for services provided as part of these activities.

              Office of United States Trade Representative

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code, $54,250,000, of which $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That section 141(a) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2171(a)) is amended by striking 
``Executive Office of the President'' and inserting ``Department of 
Commerce'':  Provided further, That not to exceed $124,000 shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses.

                    Bureau of Industry and Security

                     operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed 
overseas; employment of citizens of the United States and aliens by 
contract for services abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner 
authorized in the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United 
States Code, when such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed 
$13,500 for official representation expenses abroad; awards of 
compensation to informers under the Export Administration Act of 1979, 
and as authorized by section 1(b) of the Act of June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 
223; 22 U.S.C. 401(b)); and purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with special 
requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard to any price 
limitation otherwise established by law, $106,500,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That the provisions of the first 
sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual 
Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 
2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these activities:  Provided 
further, That payments and contributions collected and accepted for 
materials or services provided as part of such activities may be 
retained for use in covering the cost of such activities, and for 
providing information to the public with respect to the export 
administration and national security activities of the Department of 
Commerce and other export control programs of the United States and 
other governments.

                  Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, for trade adjustment 
assistance, and for grants authorized by section 27 of the Stevenson-
Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), 
$213,000,000, to remain available until expended; of which $10,000,000 
shall be for grants under such section 27.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $37,000,000:  Provided, 
That these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to 
title I of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, title II of the 
Trade Act of 1974, section 27 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology 
Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), and the Community Emergency 
Drought Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                     minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $30,000,000.

                   Economic and Statistical Analysis

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

                          Bureau of the Census

                      current surveys and programs

    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing and publishing statistics, provided for by law, $266,000,000: 
 Provided, That, from amounts provided herein, funds may be used for 
promotion, outreach, and marketing activities.

                     periodic censuses and programs

    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing and publishing statistics for periodic censuses and programs 
provided for by law, $862,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2017:  Provided, That, from amounts provided herein, funds may be 
used for promotion, outreach, and marketing activities:  Provided 
further, That within the amounts appropriated, $1,551,000 shall be 
transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' account for 
activities associated with carrying out investigations and audits 
related to the Bureau of the Census.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), $38,200,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce shall 
charge Federal agencies for costs incurred in spectrum management, 
analysis, operations, and related services, and such fees shall be 
retained and used as offsetting collections for costs of such spectrum 
services, to remain available until expended:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary of Commerce is authorized to retain and use as offsetting 
collections all funds transferred, or previously transferred, from 
other Government agencies for all costs incurred in telecommunications 
research, engineering, and related activities by the Institute for 
Telecommunication Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned 
functions under this paragraph, and such funds received from other 
Government agencies shall remain available until expended.

    public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction

    For the administration of prior-year grants, recoveries and 
unobligated balances of funds previously appropriated are available for 
the administration of all open grants until their expiration.

               United States Patent and Trademark Office

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office (USPTO) provided for by law, including defense of suits 
instituted against the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual 
Property and Director of the USPTO, $3,272,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections of fees and 
surcharges assessed and collected by the USPTO under any law are 
received during fiscal year 2016, so as to result in a fiscal year 2016 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at $0:  Provided further, 
That during fiscal year 2016, should the total amount of such 
offsetting collections be less than $3,272,000,000 this amount shall be 
reduced accordingly:  Provided further, That any amount received in 
excess of $3,272,000,000 in fiscal year 2016 and deposited in the 
Patent and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That the Director of USPTO shall submit a 
spending plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate for any amounts made available by the 
preceding proviso and such spending plan shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section:  Provided further, That any amounts 
reprogrammed in accordance with the preceding proviso shall be 
transferred to the United States Patent and Trademark Office ``Salaries 
and Expenses'' account:  Provided further, That from amounts provided 
herein, not to exceed $900 shall be made available in fiscal year 2016 
for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That in fiscal year 2016 from the amounts made available for ``Salaries 
and Expenses'' for the USPTO, the amounts necessary to pay (1) the 
difference between the percentage of basic pay contributed by the USPTO 
and employees under section 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code, and 
the normal cost percentage (as defined by section 8331(17) of that 
title) as provided by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for 
USPTO's specific use, of basic pay, of employees subject to subchapter 
III of chapter 83 of that title, and (2) the present value of the 
otherwise unfunded accruing costs, as determined by OPM for USPTO's 
specific use of post-retirement life insurance and post-retirement 
health benefits coverage for all USPTO employees who are enrolled in 
Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal Employees Group 
Life Insurance (FEGLI), shall be transferred to the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund, the FEGLI Fund, and the FEHB Fund, as 
appropriate, and shall be available for the authorized purposes of 
those accounts:  Provided further, That any differences between the 
present value factors published in OPM's yearly 300 series benefit 
letters and the factors that OPM provides for USPTO's specific use 
shall be recognized as an imputed cost on USPTO's financial statements, 
where applicable:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, all fees and surcharges assessed and collected by 
USPTO are available for USPTO only pursuant to section 42(c) of title 
35, United States Code, as amended by section 22 of the Leahy-Smith 
America Invents Act (Public Law 112-29):  Provided further, That within 
the amounts appropriated, $2,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
``Office of Inspector General'' account for activities associated with 
carrying out investigations and audits related to the USPTO.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST), $684,700,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed $9,000,000 may be transferred to the ``Working 
Capital Fund'':  Provided, That not to exceed $5,000 shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, That 
NIST may provide local transportation for summer undergraduate research 
fellowship program participants.

                     industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses for industrial technology services, 
$145,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which $130,000,000 
shall be for the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership, and of 
which $15,000,000 shall be for the Advanced Manufacturing Technology 
Consortia.

                  construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including 
architectural and engineering design, and for renovation and 
maintenance of existing facilities, not otherwise provided for the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology, as authorized by 
sections 13 through 15 of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278c-278e), $63,300,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That the Secretary of Commerce shall include 
in the budget justification materials that the Secretary submits to 
Congress in support of the Department of Commerce budget (as submitted 
with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code) an estimate for each National Institute of 
Standards and Technology construction project having a total multi-year 
program cost of more than $5,000,000, and simultaneously the budget 
justification materials shall include an estimate of the budgetary 
requirements for each such project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal 
years.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including maintenance, 
operation, and hire of aircraft and vessels; grants, contracts, or 
other payments to nonprofit organizations for the purposes of 
conducting activities pursuant to cooperative agreements; and 
relocation of facilities, $3,242,723,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017, except that funds provided for cooperative 
enforcement shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That fees and donations received by the National Ocean Service for the 
management of national marine sanctuaries may be retained and used for 
the salaries and expenses associated with those activities, 
notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That in addition, $130,164,000 shall be derived by transfer 
from the fund entitled ``Promote and Develop Fishery Products and 
Research Pertaining to American Fisheries'', which shall only be used 
for fishery activities related to the Saltonstall-Kennedy Grant 
Program, Cooperative Research, Annual Stock Assessments, Survey and 
Monitoring Projects, Interjurisdictional Fisheries Grants, and Fish 
Information Networks:  Provided further, That of the $3,390,387,000 
provided for in direct obligations under this heading, $3,242,723,000 
is appropriated from the general fund, $130,164,000 is provided by 
transfer and $17,500,000 is derived from recoveries of prior year 
obligations:  Provided further, That the total amount available for 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration corporate services 
administrative support costs shall not exceed $222,523,000:  Provided 
further, That any deviation from the amounts designated for specific 
activities in the report accompanying this Act, or any use of 
deobligated balances of funds provided under this heading in previous 
years, shall be subject to the procedures set forth in section 505 of 
this Act:  Provided further, That in addition, for necessary retired 
pay expenses under the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and 
Survivor Benefits Plan, and for payments for the medical care of 
retired personnel and their dependents under the Dependents Medical 
Care Act (10 U.S.C. 55), such sums as may be necessary.

               procurement, acquisition and construction

    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital assets, 
including alteration and modification costs, of the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, $2,079,494,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018, except that funds provided for acquisition 
and construction of vessels and construction of facilities shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of the $2,092,494,000 
provided for in direct obligations under this heading, $2,079,494,000 
is appropriated from the general fund and $13,000,000 is provided from 
recoveries of prior year obligations:  Provided further, That any 
deviation from the amounts designated for specific activities in the 
report accompanying this Act, or any use of deobligated balances of 
funds provided under this heading in previous years, shall be subject 
to the procedures set forth in section 505 of this Act:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall include in budget 
justification materials that the Secretary submits to Congress in 
support of the Department of Commerce budget (as submitted with the 
budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code) an estimate for each National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration procurement, acquisition or construction project having 
a total of more than $5,000,000 and simultaneously the budget 
justification shall include an estimate of the budgetary requirements 
for each such project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal years:  
Provided further, That, within the amounts appropriated, $1,302,000 
shall be transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' account for 
activities associated with carrying out investigations and audits 
related to satellite procurement, acquisition and construction.

                    pacific coastal salmon recovery

    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of Pacific 
salmon populations, $65,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2017:  Provided, That, of the funds provided herein, the Secretary 
of Commerce may issue grants to the States of Washington, Oregon, 
Idaho, Nevada, California, and Alaska, and to the Federally recognized 
tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific Coast (including Alaska), for 
projects necessary for conservation of salmon and steelhead populations 
that are listed as threatened or endangered, or that are identified by 
a State as at-risk to be so listed, for maintaining populations 
necessary for exercise of tribal treaty fishing rights or native 
subsistence fishing, or for conservation of Pacific coastal salmon and 
steelhead habitat, based on guidelines to be developed by the Secretary 
of Commerce:  Provided further, That all funds shall be allocated based 
on scientific and other merit principles and shall not be available for 
marketing activities:  Provided further, That funds disbursed to States 
shall be subject to a matching requirement of funds or documented in-
kind contributions of at least 33 percent of the Federal funds.

                      fishermen's contingency fund

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $350,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.

                   fisheries finance program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
during fiscal year 2016, obligations of direct loans may not exceed 
$24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans and not to exceed 
$100,000,000 for traditional direct loans as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act of 1936.

                        Departmental Management

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the management of the Department of 
Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed $4,500 for 
official reception and representation, $56,000,000:  Provided, That 
within amounts provided, the Secretary of Commerce may use up to 
$2,500,000 to engage in activities to provide businesses and 
communities with information about and referrals to relevant Federal, 
State, and local government programs.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.), $30,596,000.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

    Sec. 101.  During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations and funds made available to the Department of Commerce 
by this Act shall be available for the activities specified in the Act 
of October 26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner 
prescribed by the Act, and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used 
for advanced payments not otherwise authorized only upon the 
certification of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that 
such payments are in the public interest.
    Sec. 102.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 103.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers:  Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act 
and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations at least 15 days in advance of the acquisition or 
disposal of any capital asset (including land, structures and 
equipment) not specifically provided for in this Act or any other law 
appropriating funds for the Department of Commerce.
    Sec. 104.  The requirements set forth by section 105 of the 
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2012 (Public Law 112-55), as amended by section 105 of title I of 
division B of Public Law 113-6, are hereby adopted by reference and 
made applicable with respect to fiscal year 2016:  Provided, That the 
life cycle cost for the Joint Polar Satellite System is $11,322,125,000 
and the life cycle cost for the Geostationary Operational Environmental 
Satellite R-Series Program is $10,828,059,000.
    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary may furnish services (including but not limited to utilities, 
telecommunications, and security services) necessary to support the 
operation, maintenance, and improvement of space that persons, firms, 
or organizations are authorized, pursuant to the Public Buildings 
Cooperative Use Act of 1976 or other authority, to use or occupy in the 
Herbert C. Hoover Building, Washington, DC, or other buildings, the 
maintenance, operation, and protection of which has been delegated to 
the Secretary from the Administrator of General Services pursuant to 
the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 on a 
reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts received as 
reimbursement for services provided under this section or the authority 
under which the use or occupancy of the space is authorized, up to 
$200,000, shall be credited to the appropriation or fund which 
initially bears the costs of such services.
    Sec. 106.  Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent a 
grant recipient from deterring child pornography, copyright 
infringement, or any other unlawful activity over its networks.
    Sec. 107.  The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration is authorized to use, with their consent, 
with reimbursement and subject to the limits of available 
appropriations, the land, services, equipment, personnel, and 
facilities of any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States, or of any State, local government, Indian tribal government, 
Territory, or possession, or of any political subdivision thereof, or 
of any foreign government or international organization, for purposes 
related to carrying out the responsibilities of any statute 
administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
    Sec. 108.  Notwithstanding section 14 of the Act of June 18, 1934 
(commonly known as the ``Foreign Trade Zones Act'') (48 Stat. 998, 
chapter 590; 19 U.S.C. 81n), none of the funds provided for in this 
Act, or any other appropriations Act, for the Department of Commerce 
shall be available to enforce or carry out any activities under 15 CFR 
400.43.
    Sec. 109. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act or any 
other appropriations Act may be used by the Secretary of Commerce to 
manage fisheries in the Gulf of Mexico unless such management is 
subject to the boundaries for coastal States set out under subsection 
(b).
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of 
fisheries management the seaward boundary of a coastal State in the 
Gulf of Mexico is a line 9 nautical miles seaward from the baseline 
from which the territorial sea of the United States is measured.
    Sec. 110.  The National Technical Information Service shall not 
charge any customer for a copy of any report or document generated by 
the Legislative Branch unless the Service has provided information to 
the customer on how an electronic copy of such report or document may 
be accessed and downloaded for free online. Should a customer still 
require the Service to provide a printed or digital copy of the report 
or document, the charge shall be limited to recovering the Service's 
cost of processing, reproducing, and delivering such report or 
document.
    Sec. 111.  To carry out the responsibilities of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Administrator of 
NOAA is authorized to: (1) enter into grants and cooperative agreements 
with; (2) use on a non-reimbursable basis land, services, equipment, 
personnel, and facilities provided by; and (3) receive and expend funds 
made available on a consensual basis from: a Federal agency, State or 
subdivision thereof, local government, tribal government, territory, or 
possession or any subdivisions thereof:  Provided, That funds received 
for permitting and related regulatory activities pursuant to this 
section shall be deposited under the heading ``National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration--Operations, Research, and Facilities'' and 
shall remain available until September 30, 2018 for such purposes:  
Provided further, That all funds within this section and their 
corresponding uses are subject to section 505 of this Act.
    Sec. 112.  The Secretary of Commerce may waive the requirement for 
bonds under 40 U.S.C. 3131 with respect to contracts for the 
construction, alteration, or repair of vessels, regardless of the terms 
of the contracts as to payment or title, when the contract is made 
under the Coast and Geodetic Survey Act of 1947 (33 U.S.C. 883a et 
seq.).
    Sec. 113.  Amounts provided by this Act or by any prior 
appropriations Act that remain available for obligation, for necessary 
expenses of the programs of the Economics and Statistics Administration 
of the Department of Commerce, including amounts provided for programs 
of the Bureau of Economic Analysis and the U.S. Census Bureau, shall be 
available for expenses of cooperative agreements with appropriate 
entities, including any Federal, State, or local governmental unit, or 
institution of higher education, to aid and promote statistical, 
research, and methodology activities which further the purposes for 
which such amounts have been made available.
     This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $109,000,000, of which not to exceed $4,000,000 for security 
and construction of Department of Justice facilities shall remain 
available until expended.

                 justice information sharing technology

    For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, 
including planning, development, deployment and departmental direction, 
$25,842,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That the 
Attorney General may transfer up to $34,400,000 to this account, from 
funds made available to the Department of Justice in this Act for 
information technology, to remain available until expended, for 
enterprise-wide information technology initiatives:  Provided further, 
That the transfer authority in the preceding proviso is in addition to 
any other transfer authority contained in this Act.

                   administrative review and appeals

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the administration of pardon and 
clemency petitions and immigration-related activities, $411,072,000, of 
which $4,000,000 shall be derived by transfer from the Executive Office 
for Immigration Review fees deposited in the ``Immigration Examinations 
Fee'' account:  Provided, That, of the amount available for the 
Executive Office for Immigration Review, not to exceed $15,000,000 
shall remain available until expended.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$89,000,000, including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character.

                    United States Parole Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized, $13,308,000.

                            Legal Activities

            salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department 
of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 
for expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction 
of, and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the 
Attorney General; and rent of private or Government-owned space in the 
District of Columbia, $885,000,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000 
for litigation support contracts shall remain available until expended: 
 Provided, That of the amount provided for INTERPOL Washington dues 
payments, not to exceed $685,000 shall remain available until expended: 
 Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$9,000 shall be available to INTERPOL Washington for official reception 
and representation expenses:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 205 of this Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General 
that emergent circumstances require additional funding for litigation 
activities of the Civil Division, the Attorney General may transfer 
such amounts to ``Salaries and Expenses, General Legal Activities'' 
from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, such sums as may be 
necessary shall be available to the Civil Rights Division for salaries 
and expenses associated with the election monitoring program under 
section 8 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10305) and to 
reimburse the Office of Personnel Management for such salaries and 
expenses:  Provided further, That of the amounts provided under this 
heading for the election monitoring program, $3,390,000 shall remain 
available until expended.
    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $9,358,000, to be 
appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

               salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $162,246,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, fees collected for 
premerger notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust 
Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of 
collection (and estimated to be $124,000,000 in fiscal year 2016), 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation, and shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall 
be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal 
year 2016, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2016 appropriation 
from the general fund estimated at $38,246,000.

             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative agreements, 
$1,973,000,000:  Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, not 
to exceed $7,200 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses:  Provided further, That not to exceed 
$25,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

                   united states trustee system fund

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, as 
authorized, $225,908,000, to remain available until expended and to be 
derived from the United States Trustee System Fund:  Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, deposits to the Fund shall 
be available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay refunds due 
depositors:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, $162,000,000 of offsetting collections pursuant to 
section 589a(b) of title 28, United States Code, shall be retained and 
used for necessary expenses in this appropriation and shall remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated from the Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting 
collections are received during fiscal year 2016, so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2016 appropriation from the Fund estimated at 
$63,908,000.

      salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, $2,374,000.

                     fees and expenses of witnesses

    For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of contracts for 
the procurement and supervision of expert witnesses, for private 
counsel expenses, including advances, and for expenses of foreign 
counsel, $270,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which not 
to exceed $16,000,000 is for construction of buildings for protected 
witness safesites; not to exceed $3,000,000 is for the purchase and 
maintenance of armored and other vehicles for witness security 
caravans; and not to exceed $13,000,000 is for the purchase, 
installation, maintenance, and upgrade of secure telecommunications 
equipment and a secure automated information network to store and 
retrieve the identities and locations of protected witnesses:  
Provided, That amounts made under this heading may not be transferred 
pursuant to section 205 of this Act.

           salaries and expenses, community relations service

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
$14,446,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, 
upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for conflict resolution and 
violence prevention activities of the Community Relations Service, the 
Attorney General may transfer such amounts to the Community Relations 
Service, from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for 
the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by subparagraphs (B), (F), and (G) of 
section 524(c)(1) of title 28, United States Code, $20,514,000, to be 
derived from the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                     United States Marshals Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service, 
$1,195,000,000, of which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, and not to exceed 
$15,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

                              construction

    For construction in space controlled, occupied or utilized by the 
United States Marshals Service for prisoner holding and related 
support, $9,800,000, to remain available until expended.

                       federal prisoner detention

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses related to United States prisoners in the 
custody of the United States Marshals Service as authorized by section 
4013 of title 18, United States Code, $1,454,414,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall be considered ``funds appropriated for State and local law 
enforcement assistance'' pursuant to section 4013(b) of title 18, 
United States Code:  Provided further, That the United States Marshals 
Service shall be responsible for managing the Justice Prisoner and 
Alien Transportation System:  Provided further, That any unobligated 
balances available from funds appropriated under the heading ``General 
Administration, Detention Trustee'' shall be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation under this heading.

                       National Security Division

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the National 
Security Division, $93,000,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 for 
information technology systems shall remain available until expended:  
Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon a 
determination by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances 
require additional funding for the activities of the National Security 
Division, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to this 
heading from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for 
the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For necessary expenses for the identification, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals associated with the most significant drug 
trafficking and affiliated money laundering organizations not otherwise 
provided for, to include inter-governmental agreements with State and 
local law enforcement agencies engaged in the investigation and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug 
trafficking, $507,194,000, of which $50,000,000 shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That any amounts obligated from 
appropriations under this heading may be used under authorities 
available to the organizations reimbursed from this appropriation.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes against the United 
States, $8,433,492,000, of which not to exceed $216,900,000 shall 
remain available until expended:  Provided, That not to exceed $184,500 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses, to include the cost of equipment, 
furniture, and information technology requirements, related to 
construction or acquisition of buildings, facilities and sites by 
purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law; conversion, modification 
and extension of Federally-owned buildings; preliminary planning and 
design of projects; and operation and maintenance of secure work 
environment facilities and secure networking capabilities; 
$108,982,000, to remain available until expended.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character pursuant to section 530C of title 28, United 
States Code; and expenses for conducting drug education and training 
programs, including travel and related expenses for participants in 
such programs and the distribution of items of token value that promote 
the goals of such programs, $2,033,320,000; of which not to exceed 
$75,000,000 shall remain available until expended and not to exceed 
$90,000 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

          Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms 
and Explosives, for training of State and local law enforcement 
agencies with or without reimbursement, including training in 
connection with the training and acquisition of canines for explosives 
and fire accelerants detection; and for provision of laboratory 
assistance to State and local law enforcement agencies, with or without 
reimbursement, $1,201,000,000, of which not to exceed $36,000 shall be 
for official reception and representation expenses, not to exceed 
$1,000 shall be available for the payment of attorneys' fees as 
provided by section 924(d)(2) of title 18, United States Code, and not 
to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be available to 
investigate or act upon applications for relief from Federal firearms 
disabilities under section 925(c) of title 18, United States Code:  
Provided further, That such funds shall be available to investigate and 
act upon applications filed by corporations for relief from Federal 
firearms disabilities under section 925(c) of title 18, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That no funds made available by this or any 
other Act may be used to transfer the functions, missions, or 
activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives 
to other agencies or Departments.

                         Federal Prison System

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Prison System for the 
administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions, and for the provision of technical 
assistance and advice on corrections related issues to foreign 
governments, $6,848,000,000:  Provided, That the Attorney General may 
transfer to the Department of Health and Human Services such amounts as 
may be necessary for direct expenditures by that Department for medical 
relief for inmates of Federal penal and correctional institutions:  
Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison System, where 
necessary, may enter into contracts with a fiscal agent or fiscal 
intermediary claims processor to determine the amounts payable to 
persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison System, furnish health 
services to individuals committed to the custody of the Federal Prison 
System:  Provided further, That not to exceed $5,400 shall be available 
for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That not to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available for necessary 
operations until September 30, 2017:  Provided further, That, of the 
amounts provided for contract confinement, not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall remain available until expended to make payments in advance for 
grants, contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other expenses:  
Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison System may 
accept donated property and services relating to the operation of the 
prison card program from a not-for-profit entity which has operated 
such program in the past, notwithstanding the fact that such not-for-
profit entity furnishes services under contracts to the Federal Prison 
System relating to the operation of pre-release services, halfway 
houses, or other custodial facilities:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding section 1345 of title 31, United States Code, or any 
other provision of law, up to $540,000 may be used to pay expenses 
associated with reentry programs to assist inmates in preparation for 
successful return to the community, including prison institution and 
Residential Reentry Center programs that involve inmates' family 
members and significant others, community sponsors, and volunteers.

                        buildings and facilities

    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and 
equipping of such facilities for penal and correctional use, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
and constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account, 
$106,000,000, to remain available until expended, and of which not less 
than $81,000,000 shall be available only for modernization, maintenance 
and repair, and of which not to exceed $14,000,000 shall be available 
to construct areas for inmate work programs:  Provided, That labor of 
United States prisoners may be used for work performed under this 
appropriation.

                federal prison industries, incorporated

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized 
to make such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing 
authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as may be 
necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the budget for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation.

   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

    Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the Federal Prison 
Industries, Incorporated, shall be available for its administrative 
expenses, and for services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, to be computed on an accrual basis to be determined 
in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed accounting 
system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, payment of 
claims, and expenditures which such accounting system requires to be 
capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired or produced, 
including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in connection 
with acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, improvement, 
protection, or disposition of facilities and other property belonging 
to the corporation or in which it has an interest.

               State and Local Law Enforcement Activities

                    Office on Violence Against Women

       violence against women prevention and prosecution programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
for the prevention and prosecution of violence against women, as 
authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) (``the 1968 Act''); the Violent Crime Control 
and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 
Act''); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) 
(``the 1990 Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end 
the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); the 
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5601 
et seq.) (``the 1974 Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386) (``the 2000 Act''); the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); and the Violence Against 
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 
Act''); and for related victims services, $479,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $245,000,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from amounts available for obligation in this Act from the 
Fund established by section 1402 of chapter XIV of title II of Public 
Law 98-473 (42 U.S.C. 10601), notwithstanding section 1402(d) of such 
Act of 1984:  Provided, That except as otherwise provided by law, not 
to exceed 5 percent of funds made available under this heading may be 
used for expenses related to evaluation, training, and technical 
assistance:  Provided further, That of the amount provided--
            (1) $215,000,000 is for grants to combat violence against 
        women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 Act;
            (2) $30,000,000 is for transitional housing assistance 
        grants for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, 
        stalking, or sexual assault as authorized by section 40299 of 
        the 1994 Act;
            (3) $3,000,000 is for the National Institute of Justice for 
        research and evaluation of violence against women and related 
        issues addressed by grant programs of the Office on Violence 
        Against Women, which shall be transferred to ``Research, 
        Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration by the Office of 
        Justice Programs;
            (4) $11,000,000 is for a grant program to provide services 
        to advocate for and respond to youth victims of domestic 
        violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; 
        assistance to children and youth exposed to such violence; 
        programs to engage men and youth in preventing such violence; 
        and assistance to middle and high school students through 
        education and other services related to such violence:  
        Provided, That unobligated balances available for the programs 
        authorized by sections 41201, 41204, 41303 and 41305 of the 
        1994 Act, prior to its amendment by the 2013 Act, shall be 
        available for this program:  Provided further, That 10 percent 
        of the total amount available for this grant program shall be 
        available for grants under the program authorized by section 
        2015 of the 1968 Act:  Provided further, That the definitions 
        and grant conditions in section 40002 of the 1994 Act shall 
        apply to this program;
            (5) $51,000,000 is for grants to encourage arrest policies 
        as authorized by part U of the 1968 Act, of which $4,000,000 is 
        for a homicide reduction initiative;
            (6) $35,000,000 is for sexual assault victims assistance, 
        as authorized by section 41601 of the 1994 Act;
            (7) $35,000,000 is for rural domestic violence and child 
        abuse enforcement assistance grants, as authorized by section 
        40295 of the 1994 Act;
            (8) $20,000,000 is for grants to reduce violent crimes 
        against women on campus, as authorized by section 304 of the 
        2005 Act;
            (9) $45,000,000 is for legal assistance for victims, as 
        authorized by section 1201 of the 2000 Act;
            (10) $5,000,000 is for enhanced training and services to 
        end violence against and abuse of women in later life, as 
        authorized by section 40802 of the 1994 Act;
            (11) $16,000,000 is for grants to support families in the 
        justice system, as authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act:  
        Provided, That unobligated balances available for the programs 
        authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act and section 41002 of 
        the 1994 Act, prior to their amendment by the 2013 Act, shall 
        be available for this program;
            (12) $6,000,000 is for education and training to end 
        violence against and abuse of women with disabilities, as 
        authorized by section 1402 of the 2000 Act;
            (13) $500,000 is for the National Resource Center on 
        Workplace Responses to assist victims of domestic violence, as 
        authorized by section 41501 of the 1994 Act;
            (14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research on violence 
        against Indian women, including as authorized by section 904 of 
        the 2005 Act:  Provided, That such funds may be transferred to 
        ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration by 
        the Office of Justice Programs;
            (15) $500,000 is for a national clearinghouse that provides 
        training and technical assistance on issues relating to sexual 
        assault of American Indian and Alaska Native women; and
            (16) $5,000,000 is for grants to assist tribal governments 
        in exercising special domestic violence criminal jurisdiction, 
        as authorized by section 904 of the 2013 Act:  Provided, That 
        the grant conditions in section 40002(b) of the 1994 Act shall 
        apply to this program.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                  research, evaluation and statistics

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974 (``the 1974 Act''); the Missing Children's 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5771 et seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies and 
Other Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 
(Public Law 108-21); the Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-
405); the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); 
the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647); the Second 
Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Victims of Crime Act of 
1984 (Public Law 98-473); the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety 
Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT 
Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401); subtitle D of title II 
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 
Act''); the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-
180); the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public 
Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); and other programs, $117,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which--
            (1) $41,000,000 is for criminal justice statistics 
        programs, and other activities, as authorized by part C of 
        title I of the 1968 Act;
            (2) $36,000,000 is for research, development, and 
        evaluation programs, and other activities as authorized by part 
        B of title I of the 1968 Act and subtitle D of title II of the 
        2002 Act;
            (3) $35,000,000 is for regional information sharing 
        activities, as authorized by part M of title I of the 1968 Act; 
        and
            (4) $5,000,000 is for activities to strengthen and enhance 
        the practice of forensic sciences, of which $4,000,000 is for 
        transfer to the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
        to support Scientific Area Committees.

               state and local law enforcement assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Justice for All Act of 
2004 (Public Law 108-405); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
(Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Trafficking Victims 
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-164); the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the Adam Walsh Child 
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam 
Walsh Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 
2000 (Public Law 106-386); the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 
(Public Law 110-180); subtitle D of title II of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); the Second Chance 
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Prioritizing Resources and 
Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
403); the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-473); the 
Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and 
Improvement Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-416); the Violence Against 
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 
Act''); and other programs, $1,009,000,000, to remain available until 
expended as follows--
            (1) $382,000,000 for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice 
        Assistance Grant program as authorized by subpart 1 of part E 
        of title I of the 1968 Act (except that section 1001(c), and 
        the special rules for Puerto Rico under section 505(g) of title 
        I of the 1968 Act shall not apply for purposes of this Act), of 
        which, notwithstanding such subpart 1, $15,000,000 is for a 
        Preventing Violence Against Law Enforcement Officer Resilience 
        and Survivability Initiative (VALOR), $10,000,000 is for an 
        initiative to support evidence-based policing, $2,500,000 is 
        for an initiative to enhance prosecutorial decision-making, 
        $15,000,000 is for an Edward Byrne Memorial criminal justice 
        innovation program, $20,000,000 is for a competitive matching 
        grant program for purchases of body-worn cameras for State, 
        local and tribal law enforcement, and $2,400,000 is for the 
        operationalization, maintenance and expansion of the National 
        Missing and Unidentified Persons System;
            (2) $75,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien Assistance 
        Program, as authorized by section 241(i)(5) of the Immigration 
        and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(i)(5)):  Provided, That no 
        jurisdiction shall request compensation for any cost greater 
        than the actual cost for Federal immigration and other 
        detainees housed in State and local detention facilities;
            (3) $41,000,000 for Drug Courts, as authorized by section 
        1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of the 1968 Act;
            (4) $10,000,000 for mental health courts and adult and 
        juvenile collaboration program grants, as authorized by parts V 
        and HH of title I of the 1968 Act, and the Mentally Ill 
        Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and 
        Improvement Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-416);
            (5) $12,000,000 for grants for Residential Substance Abuse 
        Treatment for State Prisoners, as authorized by part S of title 
        I of the 1968 Act;
            (6) $4,000,000 for the Capital Litigation Improvement Grant 
        Program, as authorized by section 426 of Public Law 108-405, 
        and for grants for wrongful conviction review;
            (7) $13,000,000 for economic, high technology and Internet 
        crime prevention grants, including as authorized by section 401 
        of Public Law 110-403, of which not more than $2,500,000 is for 
        intellectual property enforcement grants, including as 
        authorized by Section 401 of Public Law 110-403;
            (8) $3,000,000 for a student loan repayment assistance 
        program pursuant to section 952 of Public Law 110-315;
            (9) $20,000,000 for sex offender management assistance, as 
        authorized by the Adam Walsh Act, and related activities;
            (10) $22,500,000 for the matching grant program for law 
        enforcement armor vests, as authorized by section 2501 of title 
        I of the 1968 Act:  Provided, That $1,500,000 is transferred 
        directly to the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology's Office of Law Enforcement Standards for research, 
        testing and evaluation programs;
            (11) $1,000,000 for the National Sex Offender Public 
        Website;
            (12) $8,500,000 for competitive and evidence-based programs 
        to reduce gun crime and gang violence;
            (13) $55,000,000 for grants to States to upgrade criminal 
        and mental health records for the National Instant Criminal 
        Background Check System, of which no less than $12,000,000 
        shall be for grants made under the authorities of the NICS 
        Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-180);
            (14) $15,000,000 for Paul Coverdell Forensic Sciences 
        Improvement Grants under part BB of title I of the 1968 Act;
            (15) $125,000,000 for DNA-related and forensic programs and 
        activities, of which--
                    (A) $117,000,000 is for a DNA analysis and capacity 
                enhancement program and for other local, State, and 
                Federal forensic activities, including the purposes 
                authorized under section 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog 
                Elimination Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-546) (the 
                Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program):  Provided, 
                That up to 4 percent of funds made available under this 
                paragraph may be used for the purposes described in the 
                DNA Training and Education for Law Enforcement, 
                Correctional Personnel, and Court Officers program 
                (Public Law 108-405, section 303);
                    (B) $4,000,000 is for the purposes described in the 
                Kirk Bloodsworth Post-Conviction DNA Testing Program 
                (Public Law 108-405, section 412); and
                    (C) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Forensic Exam 
                Program grants, including as authorized by section 304 
                of Public Law 108-405;
            (16) $41,000,000 for a grant program for community-based 
        sexual assault response reform;
            (17) $68,000,000 for offender reentry programs and 
        research, as authorized by the Second Chance Act of 2007 
        (Public Law 110-199), without regard to the time limitations 
        specified at section 6(1) of such Act, of which not to exceed 
        $6,000,000 is for a program to improve State, local, and tribal 
        probation or parole supervision efforts and strategies, and 
        $5,000,000 is for Children of Incarcerated Parents 
        Demonstrations to enhance and maintain parental and family 
        relationships for incarcerated parents as a reentry or 
        recidivism reduction strategy:  Provided, That up to $7,500,000 
        of funds made available in this paragraph may be used for 
        performance-based awards for Pay for Success projects, of which 
        up to $5,000,000 shall be for Pay for Success programs 
        implementing the Permanent Supportive Housing Model;
            (18) $5,000,000 for a veterans treatment courts program;
            (19) $7,000,000 for a program to monitor prescription drugs 
        and scheduled listed chemical products;
            (20) $22,000,000 for a justice reinvestment initiative, for 
        activities related to criminal justice reform and recidivism 
        reduction;
            (21) $4,000,000 for additional replication sites employing 
        the Project HOPE Opportunity Probation with Enforcement model 
        implementing swift and certain sanctions in probation, and for 
        a research project on the effectiveness of the model; and
            (22) $75,000,000 for the Comprehensive School Safety 
        Initiative, and for related hiring:  Provided, That section 213 
        of this Act shall not apply with respect to the amount made 
        available in this paragraph:
  Provided, That, if a unit of local government uses any of the funds 
made available under this heading to increase the number of law 
enforcement officers, the unit of local government will achieve a net 
gain in the number of law enforcement officers who perform non-
administrative public sector safety service.

                       juvenile justice programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
1974 (``the 1974 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Violence Against Women and Department 
of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 
Act''); the Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5771 et seq.); 
the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of 
Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); the Victims of Child 
Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Adam 
Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) 
(``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-401); the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 
(Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); and other juvenile justice 
programs, $253,500,000, to remain available until expended as follows--
            (1) $65,500,000 for programs authorized by section 221 of 
        the 1974 Act, and for training and technical assistance to 
        assist small, nonprofit organizations with the Federal grants 
        process:  Provided, That of the amounts provided under this 
        paragraph, $500,000 shall be for a competitive demonstration 
        grant program to support emergency planning among State, local 
        and tribal juvenile justice residential facilities;
            (2) $75,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
            (3) $40,000,000 for delinquency prevention, as authorized 
        by section 505 of the 1974 Act, of which, pursuant to sections 
        261 and 262 thereof--
                    (A) $10,000,000 shall be for the Tribal Youth 
                Program;
                    (B) $5,000,000 shall be for gang and youth violence 
                education, prevention and intervention, and related 
                activities;
            (4) $68,000,000 for missing and exploited children 
        programs, including as authorized by sections 404(b) and 405(a) 
        of the 1974 Act (except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of the 
        PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401) shall not 
        apply for purposes of this Act);
            (5) $500,000 for an Internet site providing information and 
        resources on children of incarcerated parents;
            (6) $2,000,000 for competitive grants focusing on girls in 
        the juvenile justice system; and
            (7) $2,500,000 for a program to improve juvenile indigent 
        defense:
  Provided, That not more than 10 percent of each amount may be used 
for research, evaluation, and statistics activities designed to benefit 
the programs or activities authorized:  Provided further, That not more 
than 2 percent of the amounts designated under paragraphs (1) through 
(3) may be used for training and technical assistance:  Provided 
further, That the two preceding provisos shall not apply to grants and 
projects administered pursuant to sections 261 and 262 of the 1974 Act 
and to missing and exploited children programs.

                     public safety officer benefits

    For payments and expenses authorized under section 1001(a)(4) of 
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, such 
sums as are necessary (including amounts for administrative costs), to 
remain available until expended; and $16,300,000 for payments 
authorized by section 1201(b) of such Act and for educational 
assistance authorized by section 1218 of such Act, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this 
Act, upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for such disability and 
education payments, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to 
``Public Safety Officer Benefits'' from available appropriations for 
the Department of Justice as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances:  Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

             community oriented policing services programs

    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322); the Omnibus Crime Control 
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); and the Violence 
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 
(Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''), $212,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That any balances made available 
through prior year deobligations shall only be available in accordance 
with section 505 of this Act:  Provided further, That of the amount 
provided under this heading--
            (1) $11,000,000 is for anti-methamphetamine-related 
        activities, which shall be transferred to the Drug Enforcement 
        Administration upon enactment of this Act;
            (2) $187,000,000 is for grants under section 1701 of title 
        I of the 1968 Act (42 U.S.C. 3796dd) for the hiring and 
        rehiring of additional career law enforcement officers under 
        part Q of such title notwithstanding subsection (i) of such 
        section:  Provided, That, notwithstanding section 1704(c) of 
        such title (42 U.S.C. 3796dd-3(c)), funding for hiring or 
        rehiring a career law enforcement officer may not exceed 
        $125,000 unless the Director of the Office of Community 
        Oriented Policing Services grants a waiver from this 
        limitation:  Provided further, That within the amounts 
        appropriated under this paragraph, $30,000,000 is for improving 
        tribal law enforcement, including hiring, equipment, training, 
        and anti-methamphetamine activities:  Provided further, That of 
        the amounts appropriated under this paragraph, $10,000,000 is 
        for community policing development activities in furtherance of 
        the purposes in section 1701:  Provided further, That within 
        the amounts appropriated under this paragraph, $10,000,000 is 
        for the collaborative reform model of technical assistance in 
        furtherance of the purposes in section 1701;
            (3) $7,000,000 is for competitive grants to State law 
        enforcement agencies in States with high seizures of precursor 
        chemicals, finished methamphetamine, laboratories, and 
        laboratory dump seizures:  Provided, That funds appropriated 
        under this paragraph shall be utilized for investigative 
        purposes to locate or investigate illicit activities, including 
        precursor diversion, laboratories, or methamphetamine 
        traffickers; and
            (4) $7,000,000 is for competitive grants to statewide law 
        enforcement agencies in States with high rates of primary 
        treatment admissions for heroin and other opioids:  Provided, 
        That these funds shall be utilized for investigative purposes 
        to locate or investigate illicit activities, including 
        activities related to the distribution of heroin or unlawful 
        distribution of prescription opioids, or unlawful heroin and 
        prescription opioid traffickers through statewide 
        collaboration.

               General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 201.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of 
not to exceed $50,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Justice in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for 
official reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 202.  None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
available to pay for an abortion, except where the life of the mother 
would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or in the case 
of rape:  Provided, That should this prohibition be declared 
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, this section 
shall be null and void.
    Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated under this title shall be 
used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the 
performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 204.  Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort 
services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service outside 
the Federal facility:  Provided, That nothing in this section in any 
way diminishes the effect of section 203 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
    Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers:  Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 206.  Funds appropriated by this or any other Act under the 
heading ``Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, 
Salaries and Expenses'' shall be available for retention pay for any 
employee who would otherwise be subject to a reduction in pay upon 
termination of the Bureau's Personnel Management Demonstration Project 
(as transferred to the Attorney General by section 1115 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296 (28 U.S.C. 599B)):  Provided, 
That such retention pay shall comply with section 5363 of title 5, 
United States Code, and related Office of Personnel Management 
regulations, except as provided in this section:  Provided further, 
That such retention pay shall be paid at the employee's rate of pay 
immediately prior to the termination of the demonstration project and 
shall not be subject to the limitation set forth in section 5304(g)(1) 
of title 5, United States Code, and related regulations.
    Sec. 207.  None of the funds made available under this title may be 
used by the Federal Bureau of Prisons or the United States Marshals 
Service for the purpose of transporting an individual who is a prisoner 
pursuant to conviction for crime under State or Federal law and is 
classified as a maximum or high security prisoner, other than to a 
prison or other facility certified by the Federal Bureau of Prisons as 
appropriately secure for housing such a prisoner.
    Sec. 208. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used by Federal prisons to purchase cable television services, or to 
rent or purchase audiovisual or electronic media or equipment used 
primarily for recreational purposes.
    (b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the rental, maintenance, or 
purchase of audiovisual or electronic media or equipment for inmate 
training, religious, or educational programs.
    Sec. 209.  None of the funds made available under this title shall 
be obligated or expended for any new or enhanced information technology 
program having total estimated development costs in excess of 
$100,000,000, unless the Deputy Attorney General and the investment 
review board certify to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate that the information technology 
program has appropriate program management controls and contractor 
oversight mechanisms in place, and that the program is compatible with 
the enterprise architecture of the Department of Justice.
    Sec. 210.  The notification thresholds and procedures set forth in 
section 505 of this Act shall apply to deviations from the amounts 
designated for specific activities in this Act and in the accompanying 
report and to any use of deobligated balances of funds provided under 
this title in previous years.
    Sec. 211.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to plan for, begin, continue, finish, process, or approve a public-
private competition under the Office of Management and Budget Circular 
A-76 or any successor administrative regulation, directive, or policy 
for work performed by employees of the Bureau of Prisons or of Federal 
Prison Industries, Incorporated.
    Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
shall be available for the salary, benefits, or expenses of any United 
States Attorney assigned dual or additional responsibilities by the 
Attorney General or his designee that exempt that United States 
Attorney from the residency requirements of section 545 of title 28, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 213.  At the discretion of the Attorney General, and in 
addition to any amounts that otherwise may be available (or authorized 
to be made available) by law, with respect to funds appropriated by 
this title under the headings ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'', 
``State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance'', and ``Juvenile Justice 
Programs''--
            (1) up to 3 percent of funds made available to the Office 
        of Justice Programs for grant or reimbursement programs may be 
        used by such Office to provide training and technical 
        assistance;
            (2) up to 2 percent of funds made available for grant or 
        reimbursement programs under such headings, except for amounts 
        appropriated specifically for research, evaluation, or 
        statistical programs administered by the National Institute of 
        Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, shall be 
        transferred to and merged with funds provided to the National 
        Institute of Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, to 
        be used by them for research, evaluation, or statistical 
        purposes, without regard to the authorizations for such grant 
        or reimbursement programs; and
            (3) up to 7 percent of funds made available for grant or 
        reimbursement programs: (1) under the heading ``State and Local 
        Law Enforcement Assistance''; or (2) under the headings 
        ``Research, Evaluation, and Statistics'' and ``Juvenile Justice 
        Programs'', to be transferred to and merged with funds made 
        available under the heading ``State and Local Law Enforcement 
        Assistance'', shall be available for tribal criminal justice 
        assistance without regard to the authorizations for such grant 
        or reimbursement programs.
    Sec. 214.  Upon request by a grantee for whom the Attorney General 
has determined there is a fiscal hardship, the Attorney General may, 
with respect to funds appropriated in this or any other Act making 
appropriations for fiscal years 2013 through 2016 for the following 
programs, waive the following requirements:
            (1) For the adult and juvenile offender State and local 
        reentry demonstration projects under part FF of title I of the 
        Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
        3797w(g)(1)), the requirements under section 2976(g)(1) of such 
        part.
            (2) For State, Tribal, and local reentry courts under part 
        FF of title I of such Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3797w-2(e)(1) and 
        (2)), the requirements under section 2978(e)(1) and (2) of such 
        part.
            (3) For the prosecution drug treatment alternatives to 
        prison program under part CC of title I of such Act of 1968 (42 
        U.S.C. 3797q-3), the requirements under section 2904 of such 
        part.
            (4) For grants to protect inmates and safeguard communities 
        as authorized by section 6 of the Prison Rape Elimination Act 
        of 2003 (42 U.S.C. 15605(c)(3)), the requirements of section 
        6(c)(3) of such Act.
    Sec. 215.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, section 
20109(a) of subtitle A of title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13709(a)) shall not apply to amounts 
made available by this or any other Act.
    Sec. 216.  None of the funds made available under this Act, other 
than for the national instant criminal background check system 
established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention 
Act (18 U.S.C. 922 note), may be used by a Federal law enforcement 
officer to facilitate the transfer of an operable firearm to an 
individual if the Federal law enforcement officer knows or suspects 
that the individual is an agent of a drug cartel, unless law 
enforcement personnel of the United States continuously monitor or 
control the firearm at all times.
    Sec. 217.  No funds provided in this Act shall be used to deny the 
Inspector General of the Department of Justice timely access to all 
records, documents, and other materials in the custody or possession of 
the Department or to prevent or impede the Inspector General's access 
to such records, documents and other materials, unless in accordance 
with an express limitation of section 6(a) of the Inspector General 
Act, as amended, consistent with the plain language of the Inspector 
General Act, as amended. The Inspector General of the Department of 
Justice shall report to the Committees on Appropriations within five 
calendar days any failures to comply with this requirement.
    Sec. 218.  Section 8(e) of Public Law 108-79 (42 U.S.C. 15607(e)) 
shall not apply to funds appropriated to or administered by the Office 
on Violence Against Women, including funds appropriated in previous 
appropriations acts that remain available for obligation.
    Sec. 219.  Discretionary funds that are made available in this Act 
for the Office of Justice Programs may be used to participate in 
Performance Partnership Pilots authorized under section 526 of division 
H of Public Law 113-76, section 524 of division G of Public Law 113-
235, and such authorities as are enacted for Performance Partnership 
Pilots in an appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.

                               TITLE III

                                SCIENCE

                Office of Science and Technology Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 et seq.), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to 
exceed $2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, and 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $5,555,000.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                                science

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science research and development activities, including 
research, development, operations, support, and services; maintenance 
and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management; personnel 
and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $5,295,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That the formulation and development 
costs (with development cost as defined under section 30104 of title 
51, United States Code) for the James Webb Space Telescope shall not 
exceed $8,000,000,000:  Provided further, That should the individual 
identified under subsection (c)(2)(E) of section 30104 of title 51, 
United States Code, as responsible for the James Webb Space Telescope 
determine that the development cost of the program is likely to exceed 
that limitation, the individual shall immediately notify the 
Administrator and the increase shall be treated as if it meets the 30 
percent threshold described in subsection (f) of section 30104.

                              aeronautics

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aeronautics research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $524,700,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

                            space technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space technology research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $600,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That $150,000,000 shall be for the 
RESTORE satellite servicing program for completion of pre-formulation 
and initiation of formulation activities for RESTORE, and such funds 
are independent of the asteroid rendezvous mission or satellite 
servicing demonstration activities on the International Space Station.

                              exploration

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of exploration research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $3,831,200,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017:  Provided, That not less than $1,200,000,000 shall 
be for the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle:  Provided further, That 
not less than $2,310,000,000 shall be for the Space Launch System, 
which shall have a lift capability not less than 130 metric tons and 
which shall have an upper stage and other core elements developed 
simultaneously:  Provided further, That of the funds made available for 
the Space Launch System, $1,900,000,000 shall be for launch vehicle 
development and $410,000,000 shall be for exploration ground systems:  
Provided further, That the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration (NASA) shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate, concurrent with the 
annual budget submission, a 5 year budget profile and funding 
projection that adheres to a 70 percent Joint Confidence Level (JCL) 
and is consistent with the Key Decision Point C (KDP-C) for the Space 
Launch System and with the future KDP-C for the Orion Multi-Purpose 
Crew Vehicle:  Provided further, That funds made available for the 
Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle and Space Launch System are in 
addition to funds provided for these programs under the ``Construction 
and Environmental Compliance and Restoration'' heading:  Provided 
further, That $321,200,000 shall be for exploration research and 
development.

                            space operations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space operations research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support and services; 
space flight, spacecraft control and communications activities, 
including operations, production, and services; maintenance and repair, 
facility planning and design; program management; personnel and related 
costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 
sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; 
purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, 
charter, maintenance and operation of mission and administrative 
aircraft, $4,756,400,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017.

                               education

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aerospace and aeronautical education research and 
development activities, including research, development, operations, 
support, and services; program management; personnel and related costs, 
including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 
5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
$108,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, of which 
$18,000,000 shall be for the Experimental Program to Stimulate 
Competitive Research and $40,000,000 shall be for the National Space 
Grant College program.

                 safety, security and mission services

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics, space technology, exploration, 
space operations and education research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to 
exceed $63,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $2,784,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

       construction and environmental compliance and restoration

    For necessary expenses for construction of facilities including 
repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and modification of facilities, 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, and restoration, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law, and environmental 
compliance and restoration, $352,800,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That proceeds from leases deposited into 
this account shall be available for a period of 5 years to the extent 
and in amounts as provided in annual appropriations Acts:  Provided 
further, That such proceeds referred to in the preceding proviso shall 
be available for obligation for fiscal year 2016 in an amount not to 
exceed $6,905,600:  Provided further, That each annual budget request 
shall include an annual estimate of gross receipts and collections and 
proposed use of all funds collected pursuant to section 20145 of title 
51, United States Code.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $37,400,000, of which 
$500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2017.

                       administrative provisions

    Funds for any announced prize otherwise authorized shall remain 
available, without fiscal year limitation, until the prize is claimed 
or the offer is withdrawn.
    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by 
any such transfers. Balances so transferred shall be merged with and 
available for the same purposes and the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred. Any transfer pursuant to this 
provision shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    The spending plan required by this Act shall be provided by NASA at 
the theme, program, project and activity level. The spending plan, as 
well as any subsequent change of an amount established in that spending 
plan that meets the notification requirements of section 505 of this 
Act, shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act 
and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    For the closeout of all Space Shuttle contracts and associated 
programs, amounts that have expired but have not been cancelled in the 
Exploration, Space Operations, Human Space Flight, Space Flight 
Capabilities, and Exploration Capabilities appropriations accounts 
shall remain available through fiscal year 2025 for the liquidation of 
valid obligations incurred during the period of fiscal year 2001 
through fiscal year 2013.

                      National Science Foundation

                    research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public Law 86-209 
(42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; maintenance and operation of aircraft and 
purchase of flight services for research support; acquisition of 
aircraft; and authorized travel; $5,933,645,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017, of which not to exceed $540,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for polar research and operations 
support, and for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for 
operational and science support and logistical and other related 
activities for the United States Antarctic program:  Provided, That 
receipts for scientific support services and materials furnished by the 
National Research Centers and other National Science Foundation 
supported research facilities may be credited to this appropriation.

          major research equipment and facilities construction

    For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, facilities, 
and other such capital assets pursuant to the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including authorized 
travel, $200,310,000, to remain available until expended.

                     education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science, mathematics and 
engineering education and human resources programs and activities 
pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 
et seq.), including services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, authorized travel, and rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, $866,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

                 agency operations and award management

    For agency operations and award management necessary in carrying 
out the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et 
seq.); services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
States Code; rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; 
and reimbursement of the Department of Homeland Security for security 
guard services; $325,000,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $8,250 is 
for official reception and representation expenses:  Provided further, 
That contracts may be entered into under this heading in fiscal year 
2016 for maintenance and operation of facilities and for other services 
to be provided during the next fiscal year.

                  office of the national science board

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia, and the employment of experts and 
consultants under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code) involved 
in carrying out section 4 of the National Science Foundation Act of 
1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), 
$4,370,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General as 
authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, $14,450,000, of which 
$400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2017.

                        administrative provision

    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the National Science Foundation in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation 
shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers. Any 
transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
     This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations Act, 
2016''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $9,200,000:  Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to employ in 
excess of eight full-time individuals under Schedule C of the Excepted 
Service:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 75 
billable days, with the exception of the chairperson, who is permitted 
125 billable days:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
appropriated in this paragraph shall be used for any activity or 
expense that is not explicitly authorized by section 3 of the Civil 
Rights Commission Act of 1983 (42 U.S.C. 1975a).

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Equal Pay Act of 
1963, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, section 501 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic 
Information Non-Discrimination Act (GINA) of 2008 (Public Law 110-233), 
the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-325), and the Lilly 
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-2), including services 
as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles as authorized by section 1343(b) of title 31, 
United States Code; nonmonetary awards to private citizens; and up to 
$29,500,000 for payments to State and local enforcement agencies for 
authorized services to the Commission, $364,500,000:  Provided, That 
the Commission is authorized to make available for official reception 
and representation expenses not to exceed $2,250 from available funds:  
Provided further, That the Commission may take no action to implement 
any workforce repositioning, restructuring, or reorganization until 
such time as the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate have been notified of such proposals, in 
accordance with the reprogramming requirements of section 505 of this 
Act:  Provided further, That the Chair is authorized to accept and use 
any gift or donation to carry out the work of the Commission.

                     International Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and not to exceed 
$2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, $84,500,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                       Legal Services Corporation

               payment to the legal services corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, $385,000,000, 
of which $353,000,000 is for basic field programs and required 
independent audits; $4,500,000 is for the Office of Inspector General, 
of which such amounts as may be necessary may be used to conduct 
additional audits of recipients; $18,500,000 is for management and 
grants oversight; $4,000,000 is for client self-help and information 
technology; $4,000,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund; and 
$1,000,000 is for loan repayment assistance:  Provided, That the Legal 
Services Corporation may continue to provide locality pay to officers 
and employees at a rate no greater than that provided by the Federal 
Government to Washington, DC-based employees as authorized by section 
5304 of title 5, United States Code, notwithstanding section 1005(d) of 
the Legal Services Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 2996(d)):  Provided 
further, That the authorities provided in section 205 of this Act shall 
be applicable to the Legal Services Corporation:  Provided further, 
That, for the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be considered an agency of the United States 
Government.

          administrative provision--legal services corporation

    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, 
or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 
505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this 
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same 
terms and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all 
references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to 
refer instead to 2015 and 2016, respectively.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
authorized by title II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1361 et seq.), $3,431,000.

                        State Justice Institute

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
authorized by the State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 1984 (42 
U.S.C. 10701 et seq.) $5,121,000, of which $500,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That not to exceed 
$2,250 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses:  Provided further, That, for the purposes of section 505 of 
this Act, the State Justice Institute shall be considered an agency of 
the United States Government.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                        (including rescissions)

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress.
    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 504.  If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons 
or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall 
not be affected thereby.
    Sec. 505.  None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided 
under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act 
that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 
2016, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates or initiates a new 
program, project or activity; (2) eliminates a program, project or 
activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any project 
or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted; (4) 
relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes or renames offices, 
programs or activities; (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions 
or activities presently performed by Federal employees; (7) augments 
existing programs, projects or activities in excess of $500,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less, or reduces by 10 percent funding for any 
program, project or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent; or 
(8) results from any general savings, including savings from a 
reduction in personnel, which would result in a change in existing 
programs, projects or activities as approved by Congress; unless the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in 
advance of such reprogramming of funds.
    Sec. 506. (a) If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    (b)(1) To the extent practicable, with respect to authorized 
purchases of promotional items, funds made available by this Act shall 
be used to purchase items that are manufactured, produced, or assembled 
in the United States, its territories or possessions.
    (2) The term ``promotional items'' has the meaning given the term 
in OMB Circular A-87, Attachment B, Item (1)(f)(3).
    Sec. 507. (a) The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National 
Science Foundation, and the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate a quarterly report on the 
status of balances of appropriations at the account level. For 
unobligated, uncommitted balances and unobligated, committed balances 
the quarterly reports shall separately identify the amounts 
attributable to each source year of appropriation from which the 
balances were derived. For balances that are obligated, but unexpended, 
the quarterly reports shall separately identify amounts by the year of 
obligation.
    (b) The report described in subsection (a) shall be submitted 
within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
    (c) If a department or agency is unable to fulfill any aspect of a 
reporting requirement described in subsection (a) due to a limitation 
of a current accounting system, the department or agency shall fulfill 
such aspect to the maximum extent practicable under such accounting 
system and shall identify and describe in each quarterly report the 
extent to which such aspect is not fulfilled.
    Sec. 508.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded 
under this Act resulting from, or to prevent, personnel actions taken 
in response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be 
absorbed within the total budgetary resources available to such 
department or agency:  Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act:  Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this 
section shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section:  
Provided further, That for the Department of Commerce, this section 
shall also apply to actions taken for the care and protection of loan 
collateral or grant property.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, 
or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign country of 
restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except 
for restrictions which are not applied equally to all tobacco or 
tobacco products of the same type.
    Sec. 510. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts 
deposited or available in the Fund established by section 1402 of 
chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98-473 (42 U.S.C. 10601) in any 
fiscal year in excess of $2,602,000,000 shall not be available for 
obligation until the following fiscal year:
    (b) Notwithstanding section 1402(d) of such Act of 1984, of the 
amounts available from the Fund for obligation, the following amounts 
shall be available without fiscal year limitation--
            (1) to the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of 
        Justice Programs--
                    (A) $50,000,000 for victim services programs for 
                victims of trafficking as authorized by section 
                107(b)(2) of Public Law 106-386, or programs authorized 
                under Public Law 113-4;
                    (B) $16,000,000 for an initiative relating to 
                children exposed to violence;
                    (C) $12,000,000 for the court-appointed special 
                advocate program, as authorized by section 217 of the 
                Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990;
                    (D) $15,000,000 for supplemental victims' services 
                and other victim-related programs and initiatives, 
                including research and statistics, and for tribal 
                assistance for victims of violence;
                    (E) $20,000,000 for programs authorized by the 
                Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990;
                    (F) $3,000,000 for child abuse training programs 
                for judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized 
                by section 222 of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 
                1990; and
                    (G) $18,000,000 for community-based violence 
                prevention initiatives, including for public health 
                approaches to reducing shootings and violence.
            (2) to the Director of the Office for Victims of Crime, 
        $52,000,000 for assistance to Indian tribes only for 
        supplementing victims' services and other victim-related 
        programs and initiatives.
            (3) to the Department of Justice Office of Inspector 
        General, $10,000,000 for oversight and auditing purposes.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Justice in this Act may be used to discriminate against or denigrate 
the religious or moral beliefs of students who participate in programs 
for which financial assistance is provided from those funds, or of the 
parents or legal guardians of such students.
    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 513.  Any funds provided in this Act used to implement E-
Government Initiatives shall be subject to the procedures set forth in 
section 505 of this Act.
    Sec. 514. (a) The Inspectors General of the Department of Commerce, 
the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, the National Science Foundation, and the Legal Services 
Corporation shall conduct audits, pursuant to the Inspector General Act 
(5 U.S.C. App.), of grants or contracts for which funds are 
appropriated by this Act, and shall submit reports to Congress on the 
progress of such audits, which may include preliminary findings and a 
description of areas of particular interest, within 180 days after 
initiating such an audit and every 180 days thereafter until any such 
audit is completed.
    (b) Within 60 days after the date on which an audit described in 
subsection (a) by an Inspector General is completed, the Secretary, 
Attorney General, Administrator, Director, or President, as 
appropriate, shall make the results of the audit available to the 
public on the Internet website maintained by the Department, 
Administration, Foundation, or Corporation, respectively. The results 
shall be made available in redacted form to exclude--
            (1) any matter described in section 552(b) of title 5, 
        United States Code; and
            (2) sensitive personal information for any individual, the 
        public access to which could be used to commit identity theft 
        or for other inappropriate or unlawful purposes.
    (c) Any person awarded a grant or contract funded by amounts 
appropriated by this Act shall submit a statement to the Secretary of 
Commerce, the Attorney General, the Administrator, Director, or 
President, as appropriate, certifying that no funds derived from the 
grant or contract will be made available through a subcontract or in 
any other manner to another person who has a financial interest in the 
person awarded the grant or contract.
    (d) The provisions of the preceding subsections of this section 
shall take effect 30 days after the date on which the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Director of 
the Office of Government Ethics, determines that a uniform set of rules 
and requirements, substantially similar to the requirements in such 
subsections, consistently apply under the executive branch ethics 
program to all Federal departments, agencies, and entities.
    Sec. 515.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Departments of Commerce and 
Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the 
National Science Foundation to acquire a high-impact information 
system, as defined for security categorization in the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology's (NIST) Federal Information 
Processing Standard Publication 199, ``Standards for Security 
Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems'' unless 
the agency has--
            (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
        systems against criteria developed by NIST to inform 
        acquisition decisions for high-impact information systems 
        within the Federal Government and against international 
        standards and guidelines, including those developed by NIST;
            (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
        awardee against available and relevant threat information 
        provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other 
        appropriate agencies; and
            (3) developed, in consultation with NIST and supply chain 
        risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for any 
        identified risks.
    Sec. 516.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the use of torture by 
any official or contract employee of the United States Government.
    Sec. 517. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or treaty, 
none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this 
Act or any other Act may be expended or obligated by a department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the United States to pay administrative 
expenses or to compensate an officer or employee of the United States 
in connection with requiring an export license for the export to Canada 
of components, parts, accessories or attachments for firearms listed in 
Category I, section 121.1 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations 
(International Trafficking in Arms Regulations (ITAR), part 121, as it 
existed on April 1, 2005) with a total value not exceeding $500 
wholesale in any transaction, provided that the conditions of 
subsection (b) of this section are met by the exporting party for such 
articles.
    (b) The foregoing exemption from obtaining an export license--
            (1) does not exempt an exporter from filing any Shipper's 
        Export Declaration or notification letter required by law, or 
        from being otherwise eligible under the laws of the United 
        States to possess, ship, transport, or export the articles 
        enumerated in subsection (a); and
            (2) does not permit the export without a license of--
                    (A) fully automatic firearms and components and 
                parts for such firearms, other than for end use by the 
                Federal Government, or a Provincial or Municipal 
                Government of Canada;
                    (B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) or 
                complete breech mechanisms for any firearm listed in 
                Category I, other than for end use by the Federal 
                Government, or a Provincial or Municipal Government of 
                Canada; or
                    (C) articles for export from Canada to another 
                foreign destination.
    (c) In accordance with this section, the District Directors of 
Customs and postmasters shall permit the permanent or temporary export 
without a license of any unclassified articles specified in subsection 
(a) to Canada for end use in Canada or return to the United States, or 
temporary import of Canadian-origin items from Canada for end use in 
the United States or return to Canada for a Canadian citizen.
    (d) The President may require export licenses under this section on 
a temporary basis if the President determines, upon publication first 
in the Federal Register, that the Government of Canada has implemented 
or maintained inadequate import controls for the articles specified in 
subsection (a), such that a significant diversion of such articles has 
and continues to take place for use in international terrorism or in 
the escalation of a conflict in another nation. The President shall 
terminate the requirements of a license when reasons for the temporary 
requirements have ceased.
    Sec. 518.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States receiving 
appropriated funds under this Act or any other Act shall obligate or 
expend in any way such funds to pay administrative expenses or the 
compensation of any officer or employee of the United States to deny 
any application submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2778(b)(1)(B) and 
qualified pursuant to 27 CFR section 478.112 or .113, for a permit to 
import United States origin ``curios or relics'' firearms, parts, or 
ammunition.
    Sec. 519.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade agreement the 
text of--
            (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United States-
        Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
            (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United States-
        Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
            (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United States-
        Morocco Free Trade Agreement.
    Sec. 520.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to authorize or issue a national security letter in contravention of 
any of the following laws authorizing the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation to issue national security letters: The Right to 
Financial Privacy Act; The Electronic Communications Privacy Act; The 
Fair Credit Reporting Act; The National Security Act of 1947; USA 
Freedom Act; and the laws amended by these Acts.
    Sec. 521.  If at any time during any quarter, the program manager 
of a project within the jurisdiction of the Departments of Commerce or 
Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the 
National Science Foundation totaling more than $75,000,000 has 
reasonable cause to believe that the total program cost has increased 
by 10 percent or more, the program manager shall immediately inform the 
respective Secretary, Administrator, or Director. The Secretary, 
Administrator, or Director shall notify the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations within 30 days in writing of such increase, and shall 
include in such notice: the date on which such determination was made; 
a statement of the reasons for such increases; the action taken and 
proposed to be taken to control future cost growth of the project; 
changes made in the performance or schedule milestones and the degree 
to which such changes have contributed to the increase in total program 
costs or procurement costs; new estimates of the total project or 
procurement costs; and a statement validating that the project's 
management structure is adequate to control total project or 
procurement costs.
    Sec. 522.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence or intelligence related 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414) during fiscal year 2016 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2016.
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to enter into a contract in an amount 
greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in excess of such amount 
unless the prospective contractor or grantee certifies in writing to 
the agency awarding the contract or grant that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief, the contractor or grantee has filed all Federal 
tax returns required during the three years preceding the 
certification, has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more than 90 days prior to 
certification, been notified of any unpaid Federal tax assessment for 
which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the 
subject of an installment agreement or offer in compromise that has 
been approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or 
the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous administrative or 
judicial proceeding.

                             (rescissions)

    Sec. 524. (a) Of the unobligated balances available to the 
Department of Justice, the following funds are hereby rescinded, not 
later than September 30, 2016, from the following accounts in the 
specified amounts--
            (1) ``Working Capital Fund'', $55,000,000;
            (2) ``Legal Activities, Assets Forfeiture Fund'', 
        $362,945,000, of which $58,945,000 is permanently rescinded;
            (3) ``United States Marshals Service, Federal Prisoner 
        Detention'', $69,500,000;
            (4) ``Federal Bureau of Investigations, Salaries and 
        Expenses'', $80,000,000;
            (5) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Office on 
        Violence Against Women, Violence Against Women Prevention and 
        Prosecution Programs'', $5,020,000; and
            (6) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Community 
        Oriented Policing Services'', $10,000,000.
    (b) The Department of Justice shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report 
no later than September 1, 2016, specifying the amount of each 
rescission made pursuant to subsection (a).
    Sec. 525.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to purchase first class or premium airline travel in contravention of 
sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 526.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees 
from a Federal department or agency, who are stationed in the United 
States, at any single conference occurring outside the United States 
unless such conference is a law enforcement training or operational 
conference for law enforcement personnel and the majority of Federal 
employees in attendance are law enforcement personnel stationed outside 
the United States.
    Sec. 527.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used in a manner that is inconsistent with 
the principal negotiating objective of the United States with respect 
to trade remedy laws to preserve the ability of the United States--
            (1) to enforce vigorously its trade laws, including 
        antidumping, countervailing duty, and safeguard laws;
            (2) to avoid agreements that--
                    (A) lessen the effectiveness of domestic and 
                international disciplines on unfair trade, especially 
                dumping and subsidies; or
                    (B) lessen the effectiveness of domestic and 
                international safeguard provisions, in order to ensure 
                that United States workers, agricultural producers, and 
                firms can compete fully on fair terms and enjoy the 
                benefits of reciprocal trade concessions; and
            (3) to address and remedy market distortions that lead to 
        dumping and subsidization, including overcapacity, 
        cartelization, and market-access barriers.
    Sec. 528.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used to transfer, release, or assist in 
the transfer or release to or within the United States, its 
territories, or possessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other 
detainee who--
            (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at the United 
        States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
        of Defense.
    Sec. 529. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used to construct, acquire, or modify any 
facility in the United States, its territories, or possessions to house 
any individual described in subsection (c) for the purposes of 
detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the effective control 
of the Department of Defense.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control 
                of the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States 
                Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    Sec. 530.  To the extent practicable, funds made available in this 
Act should be used to purchase light bulbs that are ``Energy Star'' 
qualified or have the ``Federal Energy Management Program'' 
designation.
    Sec. 531.  The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall instruct any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving funds appropriated under this Act to track undisbursed 
balances in expired grant accounts and include in its annual 
performance plan and performance and accountability reports the 
following:
            (1) Details on future action the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality will take to resolve undisbursed balances in 
        expired grant accounts.
            (2) The method that the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality uses to track undisbursed balances in expired 
        grant accounts.
            (3) Identification of undisbursed balances in expired grant 
        accounts that may be returned to the Treasury of the United 
        States.
            (4) In the preceding 3 fiscal years, details on the total 
        number of expired grant accounts with undisbursed balances (on 
        the first day of each fiscal year) for the department, agency, 
        or instrumentality and the total finances that have not been 
        obligated to a specific project remaining in the accounts.
    Sec. 532.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries or expenses of personnel to deny, or fail to act 
on, an application for the importation of any model of shotgun if--
            (1) all other requirements of law with respect to the 
        proposed importation are met; and
            (2) no application for the importation of such model of 
        shotgun, in the same configuration, had been denied by the 
        Attorney General prior to January 1, 2011, on the basis that 
        the shotgun was not particularly suitable for or readily 
        adaptable to sporting purposes.
    Sec. 533. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 534.  The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the National Science 
Foundation shall submit spending plans, signed by the respective 
department or agency head, to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate within 45 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 535. (a) The head of any executive branch department, agency, 
board, commission, or office funded by this Act shall submit annual 
reports to the Inspector General or senior ethics official for any 
entity without an Inspector General, regarding the costs and 
contracting procedures related to each conference held by any such 
department, agency, board, commission, or office during fiscal year 
2016 for which the cost to the United States Government was more than 
$100,000.
    (b) Each report submitted shall include, for each conference 
described in subsection (a) held during the applicable period--
            (1) a description of its purpose;
            (2) the number of participants attending;
            (3) a detailed statement of the costs to the United States 
        Government, including--
                    (A) the cost of any food or beverages;
                    (B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
                    (C) the cost of employee or contractor travel to 
                and from the conference; and
                    (D) a discussion of the methodology used to 
                determine which costs relate to the conference; and
            (4) a description of the contracting procedures used 
        including--
                    (A) whether contracts were awarded on a competitive 
                basis; and
                    (B) a discussion of any cost comparison conducted 
                by the departmental component or office in evaluating 
                potential contractors for the conference.
    (c) Within 15 days of the date of a conference held by any 
executive branch department, agency, board, commission, or office 
funded by this Act during fiscal year 2016 for which the cost to the 
United States Government was more than $20,000, the head of any such 
department, agency, board, commission, or office shall notify the 
Inspector General or senior ethics official for any entity without an 
Inspector General, of the date, location, and number of employees 
attending such conference.
    (d) A grant or contract funded by amounts appropriated by this or 
any other appropriations Act may not be used for the purpose of 
defraying the costs of a banquet or conference that is not directly and 
programmatically related to the purpose for which the grant or contract 
was awarded, such as a banquet or conference held in connection with 
planning, training, assessment, review, or other routine purposes 
related to a project funded by the grant or contract.
    (e) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used for travel and conference activities 
that are not in compliance with Office of Management and Budget 
Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012 or any subsequent revisions to 
that memorandum.
    Sec. 536.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the 
Senate approves a resolution of ratification for the Treaty.
    Sec. 537.  The head of any executive branch department, agency, 
board, commission, or office funded by this Act shall require that all 
contracts within their purview that provide award fees link such fees 
to successful acquisition outcomes, specifying the terms of cost, 
schedule, and performance.
    Sec. 538.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to pay award or incentive fees for contractor performance that has 
been judged to be below satisfactory performance or for performance 
that does not meet the basic requirements of a contract.
    Sec. 539.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee 
to, any corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation 
under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months, where the 
awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless a Federal agency has 
considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and has made a 
determination that this further action is not necessary to protect the 
interests of the Government.
    Sec. 540.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee 
to, any corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has 
been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have 
been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely 
manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for 
collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of the 
unpaid tax liability, unless the agency has considered suspension or 
debarment of the corporation and has made a determination that this 
further action is not necessary to protect the interests of the 
Government.
    Sec. 541.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used in contravention of section 7606 (``Legitimacy of Industrial Hemp 
Research'') of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79) by the 
Department of Justice or the Drug Enforcement Administration.
    Sec. 542.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Department of Justice may be used, with respect to any of the States of 
Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, 
Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, 
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, 
Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North 
Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, 
Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, and Wisconsin, or with 
respect to either the District of Columbia or Guam, to prevent any of 
them from implementing their own laws that authorize the use, 
distribution, possession, or cultivation of medical marijuana.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Commerce, Justice, Science, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016''.
                                                       Calendar No. 120

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 2578

                          [Report No. 114-66]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce and Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
                     2016, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              June 8, 2015

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             June 16, 2015

                       Reported with an amendment
