[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 483 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 483

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      October 22, 2015.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3762) to provide for reconciliation 
pursuant to section 2002 of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal 
year 2016. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as 
amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) two hours of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Budget or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of October 23, 2015.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of October 
22, 2015, or October 23, 2015, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the 
House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his 
designee shall consult with the Minority Leader or her designee on the 
designation of any matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
