[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6016 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6016

 To require States and units of local government receiving funds under 
 grant programs operated by the Department of Justice, which use such 
funds for pretrial services programs, to submit to the Attorney General 
       a report relating to such program, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 13, 2016

 Mr. Poe of Texas introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                     the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require States and units of local government receiving funds under 
 grant programs operated by the Department of Justice, which use such 
funds for pretrial services programs, to submit to the Attorney General 
       a report relating to such program, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Citizens' Right to Know Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. REPORTING REQUIREMENT FOR DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE GRANT 
              RECIPIENTS USING FUNDS FOR PRETRIAL SERVICES PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--For each fiscal year in which a State or unit of 
local government receives funds under any grant program operated by the 
Department of Justice, including the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice 
Assistance grant program under subpart I of part E of title I of the 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3750 et 
seq.), and which uses funds received under such program for a pretrial 
services program, the State or unit of local government shall submit to 
the Attorney General a report which contains the following:
            (1) The name of each defendant participating in a pretrial 
        release program administered by the pretrial services program, 
        and whether, as applicable, each such defendant appeared for 
        trial and any post-release required court appearance.
            (2) Information relating to the previous arrest record of 
        each defendant participating in the pretrial services program.
    (b) Publication Requirement.--Subject to any applicable 
confidentiality requirements, the Attorney General shall, on an annual 
basis, make publicly available the information received under 
subsection (a).
    (c) Reduction in Funding.--The Attorney General shall, for State or 
unit of local government which fails to comply with the requirement 
under subsection (a) for a fiscal year, reduce the amount that the 
State or local government would otherwise receive under each grant 
program described in subsection (a) in the following fiscal year--
            (1) in the case that the failure to comply with such 
        requirement was the first such failure, by 25 percent; or
            (2) in the case that the failure to comply with such 
        requirement was the second or subsequent such failure, by 50 
        percent.
    (d) Reallocation.--Amounts not allocated to a State or unit of 
local government under subsection (c) shall be reallocated under each 
such grant program to States and units of local government that comply 
with the requirement under subsection (a).
                                 <all>
