[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3484 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3484

 To authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into certain 
leases at the Department of Veterans Affairs West Los Angeles Campus in 
            Los Angeles, California, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 10, 2015

  Mr. Ted Lieu of California introduced the following bill; which was 
             referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into certain 
leases at the Department of Veterans Affairs West Los Angeles Campus in 
            Los Angeles, California, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Los Angeles Homeless Veterans 
Leasing Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO CERTAIN LEASES AT THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS WEST LOS ANGELES CAMPUS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may carry out 
leases described in subsection (b) at the Department of Veterans 
Affairs West Los Angeles Campus in Los Angeles, California.
    (b) Leases Described.--Leases described in this subsection are the 
following:
            (1) An enhanced-use lease of real property under subchapter 
        V of chapter 81 of title 38, United States Code, for purposes 
        of providing supportive housing, as that term is defined in 
        section 8161(3) of such title.
            (2) A lease of real property for a term not to exceed 50 
        years to a third party to provide services that principally 
        benefit veterans and their families and that are limited to one 
        or more of the following purposes:
                    (A) The promotion of health and wellness, including 
                nutrition and spiritual wellness.
                    (B) Education.
                    (C) Vocational training, skills building, or other 
                training related to employment.
                    (D) Peer activities, socialization, or physical 
                recreation.
                    (E) Assistance with legal issues and Federal 
                benefits.
                    (F) Volunteerism.
                    (G) Family support services, including child care.
                    (H) Transportation.
                    (I) Services in support of one or more of the 
                purposes specified in subparagraphs (A) through (H).
            (3) A lease of real property for a term not to exceed 10 
        years to an institution of the State of California that has 
        partnered with the Department at the campus specified in 
        subsection (a) for more than 20 years, if--
                    (A) the lease is consistent with the master plan 
                described in subsection (e);
                    (B) the provision of services to veterans is the 
                predominant focus of the activities of the institution 
                at the campus during the term of the lease; and
                    (C) the institution expressly agrees to provide, 
                during the term of the lease and to an extent and in a 
                manner that the Secretary considers appropriate, 
                services and support that--
                            (i) principally benefit veterans and their 
                        families in the Greater Los Angeles area, 
                        including veterans that are severely disabled, 
                        women, aging, or homeless; and
                            (ii) may consist of activities relating to 
                        the medical, clinical, therapeutic, dietary, 
                        rehabilitative, legal, mental, spiritual, 
                        physical, recreational, research, and 
                        counseling needs of veterans and their families 
                        or any of the purposes specified in any of 
                        subparagraphs (A) through (I) of paragraph (1).
    (c) Limitation on Land-Sharing Agreements.--The Secretary may not 
carry out any land-sharing agreement pursuant to section 8153 of title 
38, United States Code, at the campus specified in subsection (a) 
unless such agreement--
            (1) provides additional health-care resources to the 
        campus; and
            (2) benefits veterans and their families other than from 
        the generation of revenue for the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs.
    (d) Prohibition on Sale of Property.--Notwithstanding section 8164 
of title 38, United States Code, the Secretary may not sell or 
otherwise convey to a third party fee simple title to any real property 
or improvements to real property made at the campus specified in 
subsection (a).
    (e) Consistency With Master Plan.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
each lease carried out under this section is consistent with the new 
master plan under development as of the date of the enactment of this 
Act that will detail how the campus specified in subsection (a) will be 
used to benefit all veterans.
    (f) Compliance With Certain Laws.--
            (1) Laws relating to leases and land use.--If the Inspector 
        General of the Department of Veterans Affairs determines, as 
        part of an audit report or evaluation conducted by the 
        Inspector General, that the Department is not in compliance 
        with all Federal laws relating to leases and land use at the 
        campus specified in subsection (a), or that significant 
        mismanagement has occurred with respect to leases or land use 
        at the campus, the Secretary may not enter into any lease or 
        land-sharing agreement at the campus, or renew any such lease 
        or land-sharing agreement that is not in compliance with such 
        laws, until the Secretary certifies to the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives, and each Member of the 
        Senate and the House of Representatives who represents the area 
        in which the campus is located that all recommendations 
        included in the audit report or evaluation have been 
        implemented.
            (2) Compliance of particular leases.--No lease may be 
        entered into or renewed under this section unless the lease 
        complies with chapter 33 of title 41, United States Code, and 
        all Federal laws relating to environmental and historic 
        preservation.
    (g) Notification and Reports.--
            (1) Congressional notification.--With respect to each lease 
        or land-sharing agreement intended to be entered into or 
        renewed at the campus specified in subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall notify the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the Senate, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives, and each Member of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives who represents the area in which the campus is 
        located of the intent of the Secretary to enter into or renew 
        the lease or land-sharing agreement not later than 45 days 
        before entering into or renewing the lease or land-sharing 
        agreement.
            (2) Annual report.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than 
        annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives, and each 
        Member of the Senate and the House of Representatives who 
        represents the area in which the campus specified in subsection 
        (a) is located an annual report evaluating all leases and land-
        sharing agreements carried out at the campus.
            (3) Inspector general report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than each of two years 
                and five years after the date of the enactment of this 
                Act, and as determined necessary by the Inspector 
                General of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
                thereafter, the Inspector General shall submit to the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives, and each Member of the Senate and the 
                House of Representatives who represents the area in 
                which the campus specified in subsection (a) is located 
                a report on all leases carried out at the campus and 
                the management by the Department of the use of land at 
                the campus, including an assessment of the efforts of 
                the Department to implement the master plan described 
                in subsection (e) with respect to the campus.
                    (B) Consideration of annual report.--In preparing 
                each report required by subparagraph (A), the Inspector 
                General shall take into account the most recent report 
                submitted to Congress by the Secretary under paragraph 
                (2).
    (h) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as a limitation on the authority of the Secretary to enter 
into other agreements regarding the campus specified in subsection (a) 
that are authorized by law and not inconsistent with this section.
    (i) Principally Benefit Veterans and Their Families Defined.--In 
this section the term ``principally benefit veterans and their 
families'', with respect to services provided by a person under a lease 
of property, land-sharing agreement, or revocable license agreement--
            (1) means services--
                    (A) provided exclusively to veterans and their 
                families; or
                    (B) that are designed for the particular needs of 
                veterans and their families, as opposed to the general 
                public, and any benefit of those services to the 
                general public is ancillary to the intended benefit to 
                veterans and their families; and
            (2) excludes services in which the only benefit to veterans 
        and their families is the generation of revenue for the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (j) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Prohibition on disposal of property.--Section 224(a) of 
        the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-161; 121 
        Stat. 2272) is amended by striking ``The Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs'' and inserting ``Except as authorized under section 2 
        of the Los Angeles Homeless Veterans Leasing Act of 2015, the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs''.
            (2) Enhanced-use leases.--Section 8162(c) of title 38, 
        United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, other than an 
        enhanced-use lease under section 2 of the Los Angeles Homeless 
        Veterans Leasing Act of 2015,'' before ``shall be considered''.
                                 <all>
