[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3027 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3027

    To clarify the boundary of Acadia National Park, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 7, 2016

   Mr. King introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To clarify the boundary of Acadia National Park, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Acadia National Park Boundary 
Clarification Act''.

SEC. 2. ACADIA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY.

    Section 101 of Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note; 100 Stat. 
955) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``In order to'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--In order to'';
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``The map'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(b) Availability of Map.--The map described in subsection (a)''; 
and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Schoodic Peninsula Addition.--The boundary of the Park is 
modified to include approximately 1,441 acres of land and interests in 
land, as generally depicted on the map entitled `Acadia National Park, 
Hancock County, Maine, Schoodic Peninsula Boundary Revision', numbered 
123/129102, and dated July 15, 2015.''.

SEC. 3. CLARIFICATION OF ACADIA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY AUTHORITY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior may only acquire 
land or interests in land within the boundary of Acadia National Park 
in accordance with section 102 of Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341 
note; 100 Stat. 955).
    (b) Land Outside Boundary of the Park.--No land or interest in land 
located outside of the boundary of Acadia National Park may be acquired 
except as provided in Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note; 100 Stat. 
955).
    (c) Clarification on Applicability of Certain Laws.--The Secretary 
of the Interior may not use any authority under section 3 of the Act of 
February 26, 1919 (40 Stat. 1179, chapter 45), or the Act of January 
19, 1929 (45 Stat. 1083, chapter 77), to acquire land or interests in 
land for addition to Acadia National Park.

SEC. 4. ACADIA NATIONAL PARK ADVISORY COMMISSION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall reestablish 
and appoint members to the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission in 
accordance with section 103 of Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note; 
100 Stat. 959).
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 103 of Public Law 99-420 (16 
U.S.C. 341 note; 100 Stat. 959) is amended by striking subsection (f).

SEC. 5. USE RESTRICTION REMOVED.

    The Act of August 1, 1950 (64 Stat. 383, chapter 511), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``That the Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:

``SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF LAND IN ACADIA NATIONAL PARK.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Use of Land.--The land conveyed to the town of Tremont, 
Maine, under this Act known as `NPS Tract 06-126', which was conveyed 
by the National Park Service in the deed recorded at the Hancock County 
Registry of Deeds Book 737, Page 467, National Park Service deed 377, 
shall no longer be required to be used exclusively and perpetually for 
school purposes if the land is being used for public purposes.''.
                                 <all>
