[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5504 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5504

       To require that certain information relating to terrorism 
    investigations be included in the NICS database, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 16, 2016

  Mr. Thompson of California (for himself, Mr. Murphy of Florida, Ms. 
    Graham, Mr. Grayson, Ms. Esty, and Mr. DeFazio) introduced the 
  following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
       To require that certain information relating to terrorism 
    investigations be included in the NICS database, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REPORTING OF TERRORISM INVESTIGATIONS TO NICS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``explosive materials'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 841 of title 18, United States Code;
            (2) the term ``firearm'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 921 of title 18, United States Code;
            (3) the term ``licensee'' means--
                    (A) a person licensed under chapter 40 of title 18, 
                United States Code; or
                    (B) a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or 
                licensed dealer, as those terms are defined in section 
                921 of title 18, United States Code;
            (4) the term ``NICS'' means the national instant criminal 
        background check system established under section 103 of the 
        Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (18 U.S.C. 922 note); and
            (5) the term ``terrorism'' includes international terrorism 
        and domestic terrorism, as defined in section 2331 of title 18, 
        United States Code.
    (b) Inclusion of Information in NICS.--Not later than 90 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall establish 
a process to ensure that if any person has been or is under a terrorism 
investigation conducted by the Department of Justice or any other 
department or agency of the Federal Government, information about such 
terrorism investigation of the person shall be included in the NICS 
database.
    (c) Submission of Information.--
            (1) Terrorism investigations.--The head of each department 
        or agency of the Federal Government that has information about 
        a person who has been or is under a terrorism investigation 
        conducted by the department or agency shall provide such 
        information to the Attorney General for inclusion in the NICS 
        database under subsection (b).
            (2) Explosive materials purchases.--Section 842 of title 
        18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
    ``(q) Notice to NICS of Explosive Materials Purchase.--A licensee 
who sells explosive materials to another person shall notify the 
national instant criminal background check system established under 
section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act of the sale 
and the identity of the other person.''.
    (d) Notification of Federal Bureau of Investigation.--If a licensee 
contacts NICS to request a unique identification number for the 
transfer of a firearm to a prospective purchaser under section 922(t) 
of title 18, United States Code, or to notify NICS of an explosive 
materials purchase, and the prospective purchaser or purchaser, as the 
case may be, is a person who has been or is under a terrorism 
investigation conducted by the Department of Justice or any other 
department or agency of the Federal Government, NICS shall notify the 
appropriate division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the 
request and pending firearm transfer.
                                 <all>
