[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4685 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4685

  To take certain Federal lands located in Tulare County, California, 
  into trust for the benefit of the Tule River Indian Tribe, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 3, 2016

 Mr. McCarthy introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To take certain Federal lands located in Tulare County, California, 
  into trust for the benefit of the Tule River Indian Tribe, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Tule River Indian Reservation Land 
Trust, Health, and Economic Development Act''.

SEC. 2. LANDS TO BE TAKEN INTO TRUST.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), valid, existing rights, 
and management agreements related to easements and rights-of-way, all 
right, title, and interest (including improvements and appurtenances) 
of the United States in and to the approximately 34 acres of Federal 
lands generally depicted on the map titled ``Proposed Lands to be Held 
in Trust for the Tule River Tribe'' and dated May 14, 2015, are hereby 
held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Tule River 
Indian Tribe.
    (b) Easements and Rights-of-Way.--For the purposes of subsection 
(a), valid, existing rights include any easement or right-of-way for 
which an application is pending with the Bureau of Land Management on 
the date of the enactment of this Act. If such application is denied 
upon final action, the valid, existing right related to the application 
shall cease to exist.
    (c) Availability of Map.--The map referred to in subsection (a) 
shall be on file and available for public inspection at the office of 
the California State Director, Bureau of Land Management.
    (d) Conversion of Valid, Existing Rights.--
            (1) Continuity of use.--Any person claiming in good faith 
        to have valid, existing rights to lands taken into trust by 
        this Act may continue to exercise such rights to the same 
        extent that the rights were exercised before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act until the Secretary makes a determination 
        on an application submitted under paragraph (2)(B) or the 
        application is deemed to be granted under paragraph (3).
            (2) Notice and application.--Consistent with sections 2800 
        through 2880 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as soon 
        as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall notify any person that claims 
        to have valid, existing rights, such as a management agreement, 
        easement, or other right-of-way, to lands taken into trust 
        under subsection (a) that--
                    (A) such lands have been taken into trust; and
                    (B) the person claiming the valid, existing rights 
                has 60 days to submit an application to the Secretary 
                requesting that the valid, existing rights be converted 
                to a long-term easement or other right-of-way.
            (3) Determination.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        grant or deny an application submitted under paragraph (2)(B) 
        not later than 180 days after the application is submitted. 
        Such a determination shall be considered a final action. If the 
        Secretary does not make a determination within 180 days after 
        the application is submitted, the application shall be deemed 
        to be granted.
    (e) Restriction on Gaming.--Lands taken into trust pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall not be considered to have been taken into trust 
for, and shall not be eligible for, class II gaming or class III gaming 
(as those terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Gaming 
Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703)).
                                 <all>
