[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2843 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2843


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 28, 2015

    Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, 
                      Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
    To require certain improvements in the Transportation Security 
 Administration's PreCheck expedited screening program, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``TSA PreCheck Expansion Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.
            (2) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of Homeland Security.
            (3) TSA.--The term ``TSA'' means the Transportation 
        Security Administration.

SEC. 3. ENROLLMENT EXPANSION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall publish PreCheck 
application enrollment standards to add multiple private sector 
application capabilities for the TSA PreCheck program to increase the 
public's enrollment access to such program, including standards that 
allow the use of secure technologies, including online enrollment, 
kiosks, tablets, or staffed laptop stations at which individuals can 
apply for entry into such program.
    (b) Requirements.--Upon publication of the PreCheck program 
application enrollment standards pursuant to subsection (a), the 
Administrator shall--
            (1) coordinate with interested parties to deploy TSA-
        approved ready-to-market private sector solutions that meet the 
        TSA PreCheck application enrollment standards described in 
        paragraph (1), make available additional PreCheck enrollment 
        capabilities, and offer secure online and mobile enrollment 
        opportunities;
            (2) partner with the private sector to collect biographic 
        and biometric identification information via kiosks, mobile 
        devices, or other mobile enrollment platforms to reduce the 
        number of instances in which passengers need to travel to 
        enrollment centers;
            (3) ensure that the kiosks, mobile devices, or other mobile 
        enrollment platforms referred to in paragraph (3) are certified 
        as secure and not vulnerable to data breaches;
            (4) ensure that any biometric and biographic information is 
        collected in a manner which is comparable with the National 
        Institute of Standards and Technology standards and ensures 
        privacy and data security protections, including that 
        applicants' personally identifiable information is collected, 
        retained, used, and shared in a manner consistent with section 
        552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as 
        ``Privacy Act of 1974''), and agency regulations;
            (5) ensure that an individual who wants to enroll in the 
        PreCheck program and has started an application with a single 
        identification verification at one location will be able to 
        save such individual's application on any kiosk, personal 
        computer, mobile device, or other mobile enrollment platform 
        and be able to return within a reasonable time to submit a 
        second identification verification; and
            (6) ensure that any enrollment expansion using a private 
        sector risk assessment instead of a fingerprint-based criminal 
        history records check is determined, by the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, to be equivalent to a fingerprint-based 
        criminal history records check conducted through the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation.
    (c) Marketing of PreCheck Program.--Upon publication of PreCheck 
program application enrollment standards pursuant to subsection (a), 
the Administrator shall--
            (1) in accordance with the standards described in paragraph 
        (1) of subsection (a), develop and implement--
                    (A) a process, including an associated timeframe, 
                for approving private sector marketing of the TSA 
                PreCheck program; and
                    (B) a strategy for partnering with the private 
                sector to encourage enrollment in such program; and
            (2) submit to Congress a report on any PreCheck fees 
        collected in excess of the costs of administering such program, 
        including recommendations for using such amounts to support 
        marketing of such program under this subsection.
    (d) Identity Verification Enhancement.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall--
            (1) coordinate with the heads of appropriate components of 
        the Department to leverage Department-held data and 
        technologies to verify the citizenship of individuals enrolling 
        in the TSA PreCheck program; and
            (2) partner with the private sector to use advanced 
        biometrics and standards comparable with National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology standards to facilitate enrollment in 
        such program.
    (e) PreCheck Lane Operation.--The Administrator shall--
            (1) ensure that TSA PreCheck screening lanes are open and 
        available during peak and high-volume travel times at airports 
        to individuals enrolled in the PreCheck program; and
            (2) make every practicable effort to provide expedited 
        screening at standard screening lanes during times when 
        PreCheck screening lanes are closed to individuals enrolled in 
        such program in order to maintain operational efficiency.
    (f) Vetting for PreCheck Participants.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall 
initiate an assessment of the security vulnerabilities in the vetting 
process for the PreCheck program that includes an evaluation of whether 
subjecting PreCheck participants to recurrent fingerprint-based 
criminal history records checks, in addition to recurrent checks 
against the terrorist watchlist, could be done in a cost-effective 
manner to strengthen the security of the PreCheck program.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 27, 2015.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
