[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.J. Res. 100 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. J. RES. 100

Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to give 
   States the authority to repeal a Federal rule or regulation when 
   ratified by the legislatures of two-thirds of the several States.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 28, 2016

 Mr. Bishop of Utah (for himself and Mrs. McMorris Rodgers) submitted 
the following joint resolution; which was referred to the Committee on 
                             the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to give 
   States the authority to repeal a Federal rule or regulation when 
   ratified by the legislatures of two-thirds of the several States.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each House 
concurring therein), That the following article is proposed as an 
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall be 
valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when 
ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States 
within seven years after the date of its submission for ratification:

                              ``Article--

    ``Section 1. Upon ratification of this Amendment, any Presidential 
Executive order, rule, regulation, other regulatory action, or 
administrative ruling issued by a department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States may be repealed in whole or in 
part by the several States. Such repeal shall be effective when the 
legislatures of two-thirds of the several States approve resolutions 
for this purpose that particularly describe the same provision or 
provisions of the Executive order, rule, regulation, other regulatory 
action, or administrative ruling to be repealed. The authority granted 
to the several States under this amendment does not include authority 
to repeal, in whole or in part, any law enacted by Congress or any 
Federal Court ruling.
    ``Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by 
appropriate legislation.''.
                                 <all>
