[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5734 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5734

 To amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the Secretary of 
   Veterans Affairs to provide for an operation on a live donor for 
 purposes of conducting a transplant procedure for a veteran, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 12, 2016

  Mr. Carter of Texas (for himself, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
 Williams, Mr. Neugebauer, Mr. Rooney of Florida, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Ryan 
of Ohio, Mr. Hurd of Texas, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Joyce, Mr. 
 Olson, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Young of Iowa, Mr. Cuellar, 
    Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Cook, Mr. Gibson, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. 
   Crenshaw, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia, Mr. 
 Thornberry, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Coffman, 
  Mr. Zinke, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mrs. Ellmers of North 
   Carolina, Mrs. Black, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. 
   Culberson, Mr. Long, Ms. Granger, Mr. Marino, Mr. Forbes, Mr. Sam 
 Johnson of Texas, Mr. Yoho, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Womack, Mr. Flores, Mr. 
Hanna, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Gohmert, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Cole, Mr. Diaz-
Balart, Mr. Harris, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Babin, Mr. Garrett, 
 Mr. MacArthur, and Mr. Weber of Texas) introduced the following bill; 
        which was referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the Secretary of 
   Veterans Affairs to provide for an operation on a live donor for 
 purposes of conducting a transplant procedure for a veteran, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans Transplant Coverage Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION TO PROVIDE FOR OPERATIONS ON LIVE DONORS FOR 
              PURPOSES OF CONDUCTING TRANSPLANT PROCEDURES FOR 
              VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter VIII of chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1788. Transplant procedures with live donors and related 
              services
    ``(a) In General.--In a case in which a veteran is eligible for a 
transplant procedure from the Department, the Secretary may provide for 
an operation on a live donor to carry out such procedure for such 
veteran, notwithstanding that the live donor may not be eligible for 
health care from the Department.
    ``(b) Other Services.--The Secretary shall furnish to a live donor 
any care or services before and after conducting the transplant 
procedure under subsection (a) that may be required in connection with 
such procedure.
    ``(c) Use of Department or Non-Department Facilities.--The 
Secretary may provide for the operation described in subsection (a) on 
a live donor and furnish to the live donor the care and services 
described in subsection (b) at a facility of the Department or at a 
non-Department facility pursuant to an agreement entered into by the 
Secretary under section 1703 or 8153 of this title, section 101 of the 
Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 
113-146; 38 U.S.C. 1701 note), or any other authority of the Secretary 
to furnish care at non-Department facilities. The live donor shall be 
deemed to be an individual eligible for hospital care and medical 
services at a non-Department facility pursuant to such an agreement 
solely for the purposes of receiving such operation, care, and services 
at the non-Department facility.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 17 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1787 the following new item:

``1788. Transplant procedures with live donors and related services.''.
                                 <all>
