[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2154 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2154

 To amend title 23, United States Code, to reduce injuries and deaths 
   caused by cell phone use and texting while driving, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 30, 2015

Mr. Engel (for himself, Mr. Deutch, and Mr. DeSaulnier) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Transportation 
  and Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 23, United States Code, to reduce injuries and deaths 
   caused by cell phone use and texting while driving, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Distracted Driving Prevention Act of 
2015''.

SEC. 2. DISTRACTED DRIVING GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 405(e) of title 23, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``in paragraphs (2) and 
        (3)'' and inserting ``in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4)'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(C)--
                    (A) in clause (i) by striking ``fine'' and 
                inserting ``penalty''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii) by striking ``fines'' and 
                inserting ``penalties'';
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``offense;'' 
                and inserting ``offense; and'';
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (C);
                    (C) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as 
                subparagraph (C); and
                    (D) in subparagraph (C) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C) of this paragraph)--
                            (i) in clause (i) by striking ``fine'' and 
                        inserting ``penalty''; and
                            (ii) in clause (ii) by striking ``fines'' 
                        and inserting ``penalties'';
            (4) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (9) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (10), respectively;
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) Prohibition on handheld cell phone use while 
        driving.--A State statute meets the requirements set forth in 
        this paragraph if the statute--
                    ``(A) prohibits a driver from holding a personal 
                wireless communications device to conduct a telephone 
                call while driving;
                    ``(B) allows the use of a hands-free device by a 
                driver, other than a driver who has not attained the 
                age of 18 years, for initiating, conducting, or 
                receiving a telephone call;
                    ``(C) makes violation of the law a primary offense; 
                and
                    ``(D) establishes--
                            ``(i) a minimum penalty for a first 
                        violation of the law; and
                            ``(ii) increased penalties for repeat 
                        violations.'';
            (6) in paragraph (5) (as redesignated by paragraph (4) of 
        this subsection) by striking ``in paragraphs (2) and (3)'' and 
        inserting ``in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4)''; and
            (7) in paragraph (10) (as redesignated by paragraph (4) of 
        this subsection)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (E) 
                as subparagraphs (C) through (F), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following:
                    ``(B) Penalty.--The term `penalty' means--
                            ``(i) a fine;
                            ``(ii) a number of points to be included on 
                        a driver's record; or
                            ``(iii) an action taken by a State that is 
                        substantially similar to including points on a 
                        driver's record.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made in subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after the 
date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3. RESEARCH PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish 
a research program to study distracted driving by motor vehicle 
drivers.
    (b) Scope.--The program established under subsection (a) shall 
include studies with respect to--
            (1) driver behavior;
            (2) vehicle technology; and
            (3) portable electronic devices that are commonly brought 
        into motor vehicles.
    (c) Research Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary may grant research contracts to nongovernmental 
        entities to study distracted driving.
            (2) Limitations.--The Secretary may not grant a research 
        contract under this section to any person that produces or 
        sells--
                    (A) electronic equipment that is used in motor 
                vehicles;
                    (B) portable electronic equipment commonly brought 
                into motor vehicles; or
                    (C) motor vehicles.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
report on the results of the program established under subsection (a).

SEC. 4. FCC REPORT ON DISTRACTED DRIVING TECHNOLOGY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Federal Communications Commission shall submit to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that 
identifies--
            (1) data the Commission can collect and analyze that will 
        assist in understanding and reducing the problem of distracted 
        driving involving the use of personal wireless communications 
        devices;
            (2) existing and developing wireless communications 
        technology that may be used to reduce problems associated with 
        distracted driving; and
            (3) existing authority that the Commission may use to 
        assist in reducing problems associated with distracted driving.
                                 <all>
