[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2767 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2767

To provide that service of the members of the organization known as the 
United States Cadet Nurse Corps during World War II constituted active 
military service for purposes of laws administered by the Secretary of 
               Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 7, 2016

Mr. Menendez (for himself, Mr. Peters, and Mrs. Shaheen) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                           Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide that service of the members of the organization known as the 
United States Cadet Nurse Corps during World War II constituted active 
military service for purposes of laws administered by the Secretary of 
               Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``United States Cadet Nurse Corps 
Equity Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. SERVICE DEEMED TO BE ACTIVE MILITARY SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--For purposes of section 401(a)(1)(A) of the GI 
Bill Improvement Act of 1977 (38 U.S.C. 106 note), the Secretary of 
Defense is deemed to have determined that qualified service of a person 
constituted active military service.
    (b) Determination of Discharge Status.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall issue an honorable discharge under section 401(a)(1)(B) of the GI 
Bill Improvement Act of 1977 to each person whose qualified service 
warrants an honorable discharge. Such discharge shall be issued before 
the end of the one-year period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION OF RETROACTIVE BENEFITS.

    No benefits may be paid to any person as a result of the enactment 
of this Act for any period before the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 4. QUALIFIED SERVICE DEFINED.

    In this Act, the term ``qualified service'' means service of a 
person as a member of the organization known as the United States Cadet 
Nurse Corps during the period beginning on July 1, 1943, and ending on 
December 15, 1945.
                                 <all>
