[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3595 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3595

    To extend the authorization to carry out the replacement of the 
   existing medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs in 
               Denver, Colorado, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 24, 2015

Mr. Miller of Florida introduced the following bill; which was referred 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committee 
  on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To extend the authorization to carry out the replacement of the 
   existing medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs in 
               Denver, Colorado, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Increased Authorizations for the 
Denver VA Medical Center Construction Project Act''.

SEC. 2. INCREASE IN AUTHORIZATION FOR DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              MEDICAL FACILITY PROJECT PREVIOUSLY AUTHORIZED.

    Section 2(a) of the Construction Authorization and Choice 
Improvement Act (Public Law 114-19; 129 Stat. 215), as amended by 
section 1 of Public Law 114-25, is further amended by striking 
``$1,050,000,000'' and inserting ``$1,675,000,000''.

SEC. 3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT OF SUPER CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 8103 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e)(1) In the case of any super construction project, the 
Secretary shall enter into an agreement with an appropriate non-
Department Federal entity to provide full project management services 
for the super construction project, including management over the 
project design, acquisition, construction, and contract changes. Such 
agreement shall provide that the Secretary shall reimburse such Federal 
entity for all costs associated with the provision of project 
management services under the agreement.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `super construction project' 
means a project for the construction, alteration, or acquisition of a 
medical facility involving a total expenditure of more than 
$100,000,000.''.
    (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
with respect to the following:
            (1) The medical facility construction project in Denver, 
        Colorado, specified in section 2 of the Construction 
        Authorization and Choice Improvement Act (Public Law 114-19; 
        129 Stat. 215).
            (2) A super construction project (as defined in section 
        8103(e)(2) of title 38, United States Code, as added by such 
        subsection (a)) that is authorized on or after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.

SEC. 4. MODIFICATION TO LIMITATION ON AWARDS AND BONUSES.

    Section 705 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act 
of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 38 U.S.C. 703 note) is amended to read as 
follows:

``SEC. 705. LIMITATION ON AWARDS AND BONUSES PAID TO EMPLOYEES OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    ``The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the aggregate 
amount of awards and bonuses paid by the Secretary in a fiscal year 
under chapter 45 or 53 of title 5, United States Code, or any other 
awards or bonuses authorized under such title or title 38, United 
States Code, does not exceed the following amounts:
            ``(1) With respect to fiscal year 2016, $100,000,000.
            ``(2) With respect to each of fiscal years 2017 through 
        2024, $360,000,000.''.

SEC. 5. REDUCTION OF BENEFITS FOR MEMBERS OF THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE 
              SERVICE WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              CONVICTED OF CERTAIN CRIMES.

    (a) Reduction of Benefits.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, 
        is amended by adding after section 713 the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 715. Senior executives: reduction of benefits of individuals 
              convicted of certain crimes
    ``(a) Reduction of Annuity for Removed Employee.--The Secretary 
shall order that the covered service of an individual removed from a 
senior executive position under section 713 of this title shall not be 
taken into account for purposes of calculating an annuity with respect 
to such individual under chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, if--
            ``(1) the individual is convicted of a felony that 
        influenced the individual's performance while employed in the 
        senior executive position; and
            ``(2) before such order is made, the individual is afforded 
        notice and an opportunity for a hearing conducted by another 
        department or agency of the Federal Government.
    ``(b) Reduction of Annuity for Retired Employee.--(1) The Secretary 
may order that the covered service of an individual who is subject to a 
removal or transfer action under section 713 of this title but who 
leaves employment at the Department prior to the issuance of a final 
decision with respect to such action shall not be taken into account 
for purposes of calculating an annuity with respect to such individual 
under chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, if--
            ``(A) the individual is convicted of a felony that 
        influenced the individual's performance while employed in the 
        senior executive position; and
            ``(B) before such order is made, the individual is afforded 
        notice and an opportunity for a hearing conducted by another 
        department or agency of the Federal Government.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall make such an order not later than seven 
days after the date of the conclusion of a hearing referred to in 
paragraph (1)(B) that determines that such order is lawful.
    ``(c) Administrative Requirements.--(1) Not later than 30 days 
after the Secretary issues an order under subsection (a) or (b), the 
Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall recalculate the 
annuity of the individual.
    ``(2) A decision regarding whether the covered service of an 
individual shall be taken into account for purposes of calculating an 
annuity under subsection (a) or (b) is final and may not be reviewed by 
any department or agency or any court.
    ``(d) Lump-Sum Annuity Credit.--Any individual with respect to whom 
an annuity is reduced under subsection (a) or (b) shall be entitled to 
be paid so much of such individual's lump-sum credit as is attributable 
to the period of covered service.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `covered service' means, with respect to an 
        individual subject to a removal or transfer action under 
        section 713 of this title, the period of service beginning on 
        the date that the Secretary determines under such section that 
        such individual engaged in activity that gave rise to such 
        action and ending on the date that such individual is removed 
        from the civil service or leaves employment at the Department 
        prior to the issuance of a final decision with respect to such 
        action, as the case may be.
            ``(2) The term `lump-sum credit' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 8331(8) or section 8401(19) of title 5, as the 
        case may be.
            ``(3) The term `senior executive position' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 713(g)(3) of this title.
            ``(4) The term `service' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 8331(12) or section 8401(26) of title 5, as the case 
        may be.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 7 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 713 the following new item:

``715. Senior executives: reduction of benefits of individuals 
                            convicted of certain crimes.''.
    (b) Application.--Section 715 of title 38, United States Code, as 
added by subsection (a)(1), shall apply to any action of removal or 
transfer under section 713 of title 38, United States Code, commencing 
on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 6. AUTHORITY TO RECOUP BONUSES OR AWARDS PAID TO EMPLOYEES OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, as 
amended by section 5, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
``Sec. 717. Recoupment of bonuses or awards paid to employees of 
              Department
    ``(a) Recoupment.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary may issue an order directing an employee of the Department to 
repay the amount, or a portion of the amount, of any award or bonus 
paid to the employee under title 5, including under chapter 45 or 53 of 
such title, or this title if--
            ``(1) the Secretary determines such repayment appropriate 
        pursuant to regulations prescribed under subsection (c); and
            ``(2) before such repayment, the employee is afforded 
        notice and an opportunity for a hearing conducted by another 
        department or agency of the Federal Government.
    ``(b) Review.--A decision regarding a repayment by an employee 
pursuant to subsection (a)(2) is final and may not be reviewed by any 
department or agency or any court.
    ``(c) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to 
carry out this section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
715, as added by section 5(a)(2), the following new item:

``717. Recoupment of bonuses or awards paid to employees of 
                            Department.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--Section 717 of title 38, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to an award or 
bonus paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to an employee of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs on or after the date that is 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Construction.--Nothing in this section or the amendments made 
by this section may be construed to modify the certification issued by 
the Office of Personnel Management and the Office of Management and 
Budget regarding the performance appraisal system of the Senior 
Executive Service of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
                                 <all>
