[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1325 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1325

To give States and localities the option to return unused Federal grant 
 funds to the general fund of the Treasury for the purpose of deficit 
                               reduction.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 4, 2015

  Mr. Pompeo introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
Committee on Appropriations, for a period to be subsequently determined 
 by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
        fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To give States and localities the option to return unused Federal grant 
 funds to the general fund of the Treasury for the purpose of deficit 
                               reduction.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Grant Return for Deficit Reduction 
Act''.

SEC. 2. OPTION TO RETURN FEDERAL GRANT FUNDS FOR PURPOSE OF DEFICIT 
              REDUCTION.

    (a) Return of Funds.--If a grant is awarded by an executive agency 
of the Federal Government to a State or locality and the State or 
locality subsequently submits written notice as provided in subsection 
(b) that it will not use any remaining funds under the grant, any such 
remaining funds shall be deobligated and rescinded and returned to the 
general fund of the Treasury for the purpose of deficit reduction.
    (b) Notice.--Notice under subsection (a) shall include a statement 
of intent to return the remaining funds described in such subsection 
and the amount of such funds, and shall be submitted to--
            (1) the head of the executive agency described in such 
        subsection;
            (2) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget; 
        and
            (3) the Secretary of the Treasury.
    (c) Application.--Subsection (a) shall apply to remaining funds 
described in such subsection notwithstanding any provision of law that 
would otherwise provide for redistribution of such funds.
    (d) Reporting.--Not later than the first February 15 after the end 
of each fiscal year, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall compile and submit to the Congress a report including a 
description and the amount of all funds returned under subsection (a) 
in such fiscal year.
    (e) State Defined.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``State'' means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, 
each commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, and 
each federally recognized Indian tribe.
                                 <all>
