[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 495 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                  House Calendar No. 70
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 495

                          [Report No. 114-315]

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
1314) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a right 
 to an administrative appeal relating to adverse determinations of tax-
                exempt status of certain organizations.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

             October 28 (legislative day, October 27), 2015

     Mr. Cole, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
1314) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a right 
 to an administrative appeal relating to adverse determinations of tax-
                exempt status of certain organizations.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 1314) to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a right to an 
administrative appeal relating to adverse determinations of tax-exempt 
status of certain organizations, with the Senate amendment thereto, and 
to consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a 
motion offered by the Majority Leader or his designee that the House 
concur in the Senate amendment with the amendment printed in part A of 
the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution 
modified by the amendment printed in part B of that report. The Senate 
amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall 
be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
Majority Leader and the Minority Leader or their respective designees. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to 
its adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the 
question.
                                                  House Calendar No. 70

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 495

                          [Report No. 114-315]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
1314) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a right 
 to an administrative appeal relating to adverse determinations of tax-
                exempt status of certain organizations.

_______________________________________________________________________

             October 28 (legislative day, October 27), 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
