[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6099 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6099

To support the establishment and improvement of communications sites on 
or adjacent to Federal lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture through the retention and 
 use of rental fees associated with such sites, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 21, 2016

Mr. Huffman (for himself and Ms. Eshoo) introduced the following bill; 
   which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
     addition to the Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To support the establishment and improvement of communications sites on 
or adjacent to Federal lands under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture through the retention and 
 use of rental fees associated with such sites, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Public Lands Telecommunications 
Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Communications site.--The term ``communications site'' 
        means an area of Federal lands designated for 
        telecommunications uses.
            (2) Communications use.--The term ``communications use'' 
        means the placement and operation of infrastructure for 
        wireless telecommunications, regardless of whether the use of 
        radio frequencies by such telecommunications is pursuant to a 
        license issued by the Federal Communications Commission or on 
        an unlicensed basis in accordance with the regulations of the 
        Commission. The term includes ancillary activities directly 
        related to such placement and operation.
            (3) Communications use authorization.--The term 
        ``communications use authorization'' means a right-of-way, 
        permit, or lease granted, issued, or executed by a Federal land 
        management agency for the primary purpose of authorizing the 
        occupancy and use of Federal lands for communications use.
            (4) Federal land management agency.--The term ``Federal 
        land management agency'' means the National Park Service, the 
        United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Land 
        Management, the Bureau of Reclamation, and the Forest Service.
            (5) Federal lands.--The term ``Federal lands'' means lands 
        under the jurisdiction and management of a Federal land 
        management agency.
            (6) Rental fee.--The term ``rental fee'' means the fee 
        based on the market value of the occupancy and use authorized 
        by a communications use authorization, as determined by 
        appraisal or other sound business management principles as 
        required by the provision of law pursuant to which a Federal 
        land management agency granted, issued, or executed the 
        communications use authorization.

SEC. 3. RETENTION OF RENTAL FEES ASSOCIATED WITH COMMUNICATIONS USE 
              AUTHORIZATIONS ON FEDERAL LANDS AND FEDERAL LAND 
              MANAGEMENT AGENCY SUPPORT FOR COMMUNICATION SITE 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) Special Account Required.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
establish a special account in the Treasury for each Federal land 
management agency for the deposit of rental fees received by a Federal 
land management agency for communications use authorizations on Federal 
lands granted, issued, or executed by the Federal land management 
agency.
    (b) Deposit and Retention of Rental Fees.--Rental fees received by 
a Federal land management agency shall--
            (1) be deposited in the special account established for 
        that Federal land management agency; and
            (2) remain available for expenditure under subsection (c), 
        without further appropriation and until expended.
    (c) Expenditure of Retained Fees.--Amounts deposited in the special 
account for a Federal land management agency shall be used for Federal 
land management agency activities related to communications sites, 
including the following:
            (1) Administering communications use authorizations, 
        including cooperative agreements under section 4.
            (2) Preparing needs assessments or other programmatic 
        analyses necessary to designate communications sites and 
        authorize communications uses on or adjacent to Federal lands.
            (3) Developing management plans for communications sites on 
        or adjacent to Federal lands.
            (4) Training for management of communications sites on or 
        adjacent to Federal lands.
            (5) Obtaining or improving access to communications sites 
        on or adjacent to Federal lands.
    (d) No Effect on Other Fee Retention Authorities.--This Act shall 
not limit or otherwise affect fee retention by a Federal land 
management agency under any other authority.

SEC. 4. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT AUTHORITY.

    (a) Department of the Interior.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
enter into cooperative agreements for administration of communications 
sites.
    (b) Forest Service.--The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through 
the Chief of the Forest Service, may enter into cooperative agreements 
for administration of communications sites.
                                 <all>
