[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3456 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3456

 To establish the Office for Partnerships Against Violent Extremism of 
      the Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 28, 2016

  Mr. Booker (for himself, Mr. Murphy, and Mr. Schatz) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
               Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To establish the Office for Partnerships Against Violent Extremism of 
      the Department of Homeland Security, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Empowering Partners to Counter 
Violent Extremism Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    Except as otherwise provided in section 8, in this Act:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Center for homeland security.--The term ``center for 
        homeland security'' means a university-based center the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security designates under section 
        308(b)(2) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
        188(b)(2)).
            (3) Countering violent extremism.--The terms ``countering 
        violent extremism'' and ``CVE'' mean proactive and relevant 
        actions to--
                    (A) counter recruitment, radicalization, and 
                mobilization to violence; and
                    (B) address the immediate factors that lead to 
                violent extremism and radicalization.
            (4) Countering violent extremism lab.--The terms 
        ``Countering Violent Extremism Lab'' and ``CVE Lab'' mean a 
        physical space and academic program at a center for homeland 
        security designated for participating students to develop and 
        test technology-based or data-driven CVE solutions.
            (5) Domestic terrorism; international terrorism.--The terms 
        ``domestic terrorism'' and ``international terrorism'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 2331 of title 18, United 
        States Code.
            (6) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001).
            (7) Office for partnerships against violent extremism.--The 
        term ``Office for Partnerships Against Violent Extremism'' 
        means the Office established under section 104 of the Homeland 
        Security Act of 2002, as added by section 4(a).
            (8) Participating student.--The term ``participating 
        student'' means a student participating in a CVE Lab.
            (9) Radicalization.--The term ``radicalization'' means the 
        process by which an individual chooses to facilitate or commit 
        domestic terrorism or international terrorism.
            (10) Technology-based or data-driven cve solution.--The 
        term ``technology-based or data-driven CVE solution'' means an 
        instrument developed by a participating student under section 
        5(b)(1) that--
                    (A) appeals to young consumers of online and social 
                media;
                    (B) counters online recruitment of violent 
                extremists or builds resilience against online 
                extremist recruitment amongst participating students' 
                peers; and
                    (C) operates on a technological platform or is 
                technological in nature, including social media 
                campaigns and mobile software applications.
            (11) Violent extremism.--The term ``violent extremism'' 
        means domestic terrorism or international terrorism.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds and declares the following:
            (1) Countering violent extremism is not the work of 
        government alone, and countering radicalization to violence is 
        frequently best achieved by engaging and empowering individuals 
        and groups at the local level to build resilience against 
        violent extremism.
            (2) The Federal Government must strengthen partnerships and 
        networks among local stakeholders in order to develop tailored 
        programs to counter violent extremists that incorporate local 
        conditions, challenges, and opportunities.
            (3) The multipronged effort to degrade and destroy violent 
        extremist groups must include efforts to counter messaging that 
        can recruit or inspire followers around the world to join such 
        groups.
            (4) The ability to rapidly disseminate images and ideas to 
        shape the public narrative makes social media a strategic 
        messaging and recruitment mechanism for a variety of different 
        groups, including--
                    (A) human rights and political organizations;
                    (B) governments; and
                    (C) terrorists and insurgent groups.
            (5) Due to the strategic role the Internet plays in 
        recruitment to terrorist violence, online counter-narratives 
        promoted by nongovernmental peers are most likely to directly 
        reach and resonate with individuals who aspire to become 
        foreign fighters or carry out terrorist attacks.
            (6) Acts of violent extremism committed in the United 
        States include--
                    (A) the homegrown violent extremist attack on June 
                12, 2016, in Orlando, which killed 49 people;
                    (B) the April 19, 1995, anti-government violent 
                extremist bombing of the Federal building in Oklahoma 
                City, which killed 168 people, including 19 children;
                    (C) the November 5, 2009, attack at Fort Hood, 
                inspired by al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which 
                killed 13 soldiers;
                    (D) the August 5, 2012, White supremacist attack on 
                a Sikh place of worship in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, which 
                killed 6 people;
                    (E) the anti-Semitic shootings by a member of the 
                Ku Klux Klan on April 13, 2014, at a Jewish community 
                center and retirement community in Overland Park, 
                Kansas, which killed 3 people;
                    (F) the November 15, 2015, shooting at an abortion 
                clinic in Colorado Springs, which killed 3 people; and
                    (G) the February 10, 2015, execution of 3 American 
                Muslims in Chapel Hill.
            (7) Former violent extremists can be powerful messengers in 
        debunking terrorist ideologies because they have credibility, 
        and the Department of State has successfully used defectors in 
        counter-messaging against the Islamic State of Iraq and the 
        Levant (commonly known as ``ISIL'').

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF THE OFFICE FOR PARTNERSHIPS AGAINST VIOLENT 
              EXTREMISM OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Title I of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
U.S.C. 101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 104. OFFICE FOR PARTNERSHIPS AGAINST VIOLENT EXTREMISM.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `Assistant Secretary' means the Assistant 
        Secretary for Partnerships Against Violent Extremism designated 
        under subsection (c);
            ``(2) the term `communities at risk' does not include a 
        community that is determined to be at risk solely on the basis 
        of race, religious affiliation, or ethnicity;
            ``(3) the term `countering violent extremism'--
                    ``(A) means proactive and relevant actions to--
                            ``(i) counter efforts by violent extremists 
                        to radicalize, recruit, and mobilize followers 
                        to violence; and
                            ``(ii) address the conditions that allow 
                        for violent extremist recruitment and 
                        radicalization; and
                    ``(B) does not include disruptive actions that 
                focus on stopping acts of terrorism by individuals who 
                have already subscribed to violence;
            ``(4) the term `covered congressional committee' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    ``(B) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
                    ``(C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    ``(D) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House 
                of Representatives; and
            ``(5) the term `violent extremism' means politically, 
        racially, or ideologically motivated international terrorism or 
        domestic terrorism, as those terms are defined in section 2331 
        of title 18, United States Code.
    ``(b) Establishment.--There is in the Department an Office for 
Partnerships Against Violent Extremism.
    ``(c) Head of Office.--The Office shall be headed by an Assistant 
Secretary for Partnerships Against Violent Extremism, who shall be 
designated by the Secretary and report directly to the Secretary.
    ``(d) Deputy Assistant Secretary; Assignment of Personnel.--The 
Secretary shall--
            ``(1) designate a career Deputy Assistant Secretary for 
        Partnerships Against Violent Extremism; and
            ``(2) assign permanent staff to, or hire permanent staff 
        for, as appropriate, the Office for Partnerships Against 
        Violent Extremism.
    ``(e) Responsibilities.--The Assistant Secretary shall be 
responsible for the following:
            ``(1) Leading the efforts of the Department to counter 
        violent extremism across all the components and offices of the 
        Department that conduct strategic and supportive efforts to 
        counter violent extremism. Such efforts shall include the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Partnering with communities to prevent 
                violent extremists from targeting members of those 
                communities in the United States for radicalization and 
                recruitment and explore potential remedies for 
                Government and nongovernmental institutions.
                    ``(B) Working with civil society groups and 
                communities to counter violent extremist 
                communications, messaging, or recruitment.
                    ``(C) In coordination with the Office for Civil 
                Rights and Civil Liberties of the Department, managing 
                the outreach and engagement efforts of the Department 
                directed toward working with communities to mitigate 
                the risk of radicalization and recruitment for violent 
                extremist activities.
                    ``(D) Ensuring that relevant information, research, 
                and products inform efforts to counter violent 
                extremism.
                    ``(E) Developing and maintaining Department-wide 
                strategy, plans, policies, and programs to counter 
                violent extremism. Such plans shall, at a minimum, 
                address each of the following:
                            ``(i) The Department's plan to leverage--
                                    ``(I) new and existing Internet and 
                                other technologies and social media 
                                platforms to improve nongovernmental 
                                efforts to counter violent extremism; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) the best practices and 
                                lessons learned from other Federal, 
                                State, local, tribal, territorial, and 
                                foreign partners engaged in similar 
                                counter-messaging efforts.
                            ``(ii) The Department's countering violent 
                        extremism-related engagement efforts.
                            ``(iii) The use of cooperative agreements 
                        with State, local, tribal, territorial, and 
                        other Federal departments and agencies 
                        responsible for efforts relating to countering 
                        violent extremism.
                    ``(F) Coordinating with the Office for Civil Rights 
                and Civil Liberties of the Department to ensure the 
                activities of the Department related to countering 
                violent extremism fully respect the privacy, civil 
                rights, and civil liberties of all persons.
                    ``(G) In coordination with the Under Secretary for 
                Science and Technology and in consultation with the 
                Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, 
                identifying and recommending new empirical research and 
                analysis requirements to ensure the dissemination of 
                information and methods for Federal, State, local, 
                tribal, and territorial countering violent extremism 
                practitioners, officials, law enforcement officers, and 
                nongovernmental partners to utilize such research and 
                analysis.
                    ``(H) Assessing the methods used by violent 
                extremists to disseminate communications and messaging 
                to communities at risk for recruitment by violent 
                extremists.
            ``(2) Developing a digital engagement strategy that expands 
        the outreach efforts of the Department to counter violent 
        extremist messaging by--
                    ``(A) exploring ways to utilize relevant Internet 
                and other technologies and social media platforms; and
                    ``(B) maximizing other resources available to the 
                Department.
            ``(3) Serving as the primary representative of the 
        Department in coordinating countering violent extremism efforts 
        with the CVE Task Force hosted by the Department and with other 
        Federal departments and agencies and nongovernmental 
        organizations.
            ``(4) Serving as the primary Department-level 
        representative in coordinating with the Department of State on 
        international countering violent extremism issues.
            ``(5) Providing guidance to the Administrator of the 
        Federal Emergency Management Agency regarding the use of grants 
        made to State, local, and tribal governments under sections 
        2003 and 2004 under the allowable uses guidelines related to 
        countering violent extremism.
            ``(6) Developing a plan to expand philanthropic support for 
        domestic efforts related to countering violent extremism, 
        including by identifying viable community projects and needs 
        for possible philanthropic support.
            ``(7) Administering the assistance under subsection (f).
    ``(f) Grants To Counter Violent Extremism.--
            ``(1) In general.--In accordance with this subsection, the 
        Assistant Secretary may award grants directly to, or enter into 
        cooperative agreements directly with, eligible recipients 
        identified under paragraph (2) to support the efforts of local 
        communities in the United States to counter violent extremism.
            ``(2) Eligible recipients.--The Assistant Secretary may, 
        based on need, directly award competitive grants to or enter 
        into cooperative agreements with--
                    ``(A) States;
                    ``(B) local governments;
                    ``(C) tribal governments;
                    ``(D) nonprofit organizations; or
                    ``(E) institutions of higher education (as defined 
                in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 1001)).
            ``(3) Use of funds.--Each entity receiving a grant or 
        entering into a cooperative agreement under this subsection 
        shall use the amounts made available under the grant or 
        cooperative agreement for one or more of the following 
        purposes:
                    ``(A) To train or exercise for countering violent 
                extremism, including building training or exercise 
                programs designed to improve cultural competency and to 
                ensure that communities, government, and law 
                enforcement receive accurate, intelligence-based 
                information about the dynamics of radicalization to 
                violence.
                    ``(B) To develop, implement, or expand programs or 
                projects with communities to discuss violent extremism 
                or to engage communities that may be targeted by 
                violent extremist radicalization.
                    ``(C) To develop and implement projects that 
                partner with local communities to prevent 
                radicalization to violence.
                    ``(D) To develop and implement a comprehensive 
                model for preventing violent extremism in local 
                communities, including existing initiatives of State or 
                local law enforcement agencies and existing mechanisms 
                for engaging the resources and expertise available from 
                a range of social service providers, such as education 
                administrators, mental health professionals, and 
                religious leaders.
                    ``(E) To educate the community about countering 
                violent extremism, including the promotion of 
                community-based activities to increase the measures 
                taken by the community to counter violent extremism.
                    ``(F) To develop or assist social service programs 
                that address root causes of violent extremism and 
                develop, build, or enhance alternatives for members of 
                local communities that may be targeted by violent 
                extremism.
                    ``(G) To develop or enhance State or local 
                government initiatives that facilitate and build 
                overall capacity to address the threats posed by 
                violent extremism.
                    ``(H) To leverage emerging and existing social 
                media and Internet platforms to directly and indirectly 
                counter violent extremist communications.
                    ``(I) To support such other activities, consistent 
                with the purposes of this subsection, as the Assistant 
                Secretary determines appropriate.
            ``(4) Grant guidelines.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For each fiscal year, before 
                awarding a grant or cooperative agreement under this 
                subsection, the Assistant Secretary shall develop 
                guidelines published in a notice of funding opportunity 
                that describe--
                            ``(i) the process for applying for grants 
                        and cooperative agreements under this 
                        subsection;
                            ``(ii) the criteria that the Secretary will 
                        use for selecting recipients based on the need 
                        demonstrated by the applicant; and
                            ``(iii) the requirements that recipients 
                        must follow when utilizing funds under this 
                        subsection to conduct training and exercises 
                        and otherwise engage local communities 
                        regarding countering violent extremism.
                    ``(B) Considerations.--In developing the 
                requirements under subparagraph (A)(iii), the Assistant 
                Secretary shall consider the following:
                            ``(i) Training objectives should be clearly 
                        defined to meet specific countering violent 
                        extremism goals, such as community engagement, 
                        cultural awareness, or community-based 
                        policing.
                            ``(ii) Engaging diverse communities in the 
                        United States to counter violent extremism may 
                        require working with local grassroots community 
                        organizations to develop engagement and 
                        outreach initiatives.
                            ``(iii) Training programs should--
                                    ``(I) be sensitive to 
                                constitutional values, such as 
                                protecting fundamental civil rights and 
                                civil liberties, and eschew notions of 
                                racial and ethnic profiling; and
                                    ``(II) adhere to the standards and 
                                ethics of the Department, ensuring that 
                                the clearly defined objectives are in 
                                line with the strategies of the 
                                Department to counter violent 
                                extremism.
                            ``(iv) Establishing vetting procedures for 
                        self-selected countering violent extremism 
                        training experts who offer programs that may 
                        claim to counter violent extremism, but serve 
                        to demonize certain individuals or whole cross 
                        sections of a community.
                            ``(v) Providing a review process to 
                        determine whether countering violent extremism 
                        training focuses on community engagement and 
                        outreach.
                            ``(vi) Providing support to law enforcement 
                        agencies to enhance knowledge, skills, and 
                        abilities to increase engagement techniques 
                        with diverse communities in the United States.
            ``(5) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Assistant Secretary $90,000,000 for 
        each fiscal year to carry out this subsection.
    ``(g) Annual Report.--During the first fiscal year beginning after 
the date of enactment of this section, and during each of the next 5 
fiscal years, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to Congress an 
annual report on the Office for Partnerships Against Violent Extremism 
that includes the following:
            ``(1) A description of the status of the programs and 
        policies of the Department for countering violent extremism in 
        the United States, including--
                    ``(A) the budget of the Department for countering 
                violent extremism, which shall include an accounting of 
                all funding amounts for all programs, initiatives, and 
                personnel of the Department related to countering 
                violent extremism;
                    ``(B) the number of full-time employees dedicated 
                to countering violent extremism programs; and
                    ``(C) the number of part-time employees supporting 
                countering violent extremism programs.
            ``(2) A description of the efforts of the Office for 
        Partnerships Against Violent Extremism to cooperate with and 
        provide assistance to other Federal departments and agencies.
            ``(3) Qualitative and quantitative metrics for evaluating 
        the success of the programs and policies described in paragraph 
        (1) and the steps taken to evaluate the success of those 
        programs and policies.
            ``(4) An accounting of--
                    ``(A) grants awarded by the Department to counter 
                violent extremism; and
                    ``(B) all training specifically aimed at countering 
                violent extremism sponsored by the Department.
            ``(5) Details of the optimal level of personnel and funding 
        for the Office for Partnerships Against Violent Extremism.
            ``(6) An analysis of how the Department's activities to 
        counter violent extremism correspond and adapt to the threat 
        environment.
            ``(7) A summary of how civil rights and civil liberties are 
        protected in the Department's activities to counter violent 
        extremism.
            ``(8) An evaluation of the grant program established under 
        subsection (f), including information on the effectiveness of 
        such grants in countering violent extremism.
            ``(9) A description of how the Office for Partnerships 
        Against Violent Extremism has incorporated lessons learned from 
        the countering violent extremism programs and policies of 
        foreign, State, local, tribal, and territorial governments and 
        stakeholder communities.
    ``(h) Annual Review.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this section, and each year thereafter, the Office for 
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties of the Department shall--
            ``(1) conduct a review of the activities of the Office for 
        Partnerships Against Violent Extremism to ensure that the 
        activities that relate to countering violent extremism respect 
        the privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties of all persons; 
        and
            ``(2) make publicly available on the website of the 
        Department a report containing the results of the review 
        conducted under paragraph (1).''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in 
section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296; 
116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 103 the following:

``Sec. 104. Office for Partnerships Against Violent Extremism.''.
    (c) Sunset.--Effective on the date that is 7 years after the date 
of enactment of this Act--
            (1) section 104 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as 
        added by subsection (a), is repealed; and
            (2) the table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland 
        Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296; 116 Stat. 2135) is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 104.

SEC. 5. STRATEGY TO COUNTER VIOLENT EXTREMISM IN THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``covered congressional committee'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (D) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
                Representatives; and
            (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security.
    (b) Strategy.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to each covered congressional 
committee a comprehensive Department of Homeland Security strategy to 
counter violent extremism in the United States.
    (c) Contents of Strategy.--The strategy required under subsection 
(b) shall, at a minimum, address each of the following:
            (1) The digital engagement effort of the Department of 
        Homeland Security, including a plan to leverage new and 
        existing Internet, digital, and other technologies and social 
        media platforms to counter violent extremism, as well as the 
        best practices and lessons learned from other Federal, State, 
        local, tribal, territorial, nongovernmental, and foreign 
        partners engaged in similar counter-messaging activities.
            (2) The countering violent extremism-related engagement and 
        outreach activities of the Department of Homeland Security.
            (3) The use of cooperative agreements with State, local, 
        tribal, territorial, and other Federal departments and agencies 
        responsible for activities relating to countering violent 
        extremism.
            (4) Ensuring all activities related to countering violent 
        extremism adhere to applicable guidance of the Department of 
        Homeland Security and the Department of Justice regarding 
        privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties, including 
        safeguards against discrimination.
            (5) The development of qualitative and quantitative 
        outcome-based metrics to evaluate the programs and policies of 
        the Department of Homeland Security to counter violent 
        extremism.
            (6) An analysis of the homeland security risk posed by 
        violent extremism based on the threat environment and empirical 
        data assessing--
                    (A) terrorist activities and incidents; and
                    (B) violent extremist communications, messaging, or 
                recruitment.
            (7) Information on the near-term, mid-term, and long-term 
        risk-based goals of the Department of Homeland Security for 
        countering violent extremism, reflecting the risk analysis 
        conducted under paragraph (6).
    (d) Strategic Considerations.--In drafting the strategy required 
under subsection (b), the Secretary shall consider including the 
following:
            (1) Efforts of the Department of Homeland Security to 
        undertake research to improve the understanding of the 
        Department of Homeland Security of the risk of violent 
        extremism and to identify ways to improve countering violent 
        extremism activities and programs, including outreach, 
        training, and information sharing programs.
            (2) The opportunities and challenges associated with the 
        establishment of the grant program under section 104(f) of the 
        Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by section 4.
            (3) The nondiscrimination policies of the Department of 
        Homeland Security that relate to countering violent extremism.
            (4) Efforts of the Department of Homeland Security to help 
        promote community engagement and partnerships to counter 
        violent extremism in furtherance of the strategy.
            (5) Efforts of the Department of Homeland Security to help 
        increase support for programs and initiatives to counter 
        violent extremism of other Federal, State, local, tribal, 
        territorial, nongovernmental, and foreign partners that are in 
        furtherance of the strategy, and that adhere to all relevant 
        constitutional, legal, and privacy protections.
            (6) Efforts of the Department of Homeland Security to use 
        cooperative agreements with State, local, tribal, territorial, 
        and other Federal departments and agencies responsible for 
        efforts relating to countering violent extremism, and 
        information regarding the effectiveness of those efforts.
            (7) Information on oversight mechanisms and protections to 
        ensure that activities and programs carried out under the 
        strategy adhere to all relevant constitutional, legal, and 
        privacy protections.
            (8) Efforts of the Department of Homeland Security to 
        conduct oversight of all countering violent extremism training 
        and training materials and other resources developed or funded 
        by the Department.
            (9) Efforts of the Department of Homeland Security to 
        foster transparency by making, to the extent practicable, all 
        regulations, guidance, documents, policies, and training 
        materials publicly available.
    (e) Strategic Implementation Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the Secretary submits the strategy required under 
        subsection (b), the Secretary shall submit to each covered 
        congressional committee an implementation plan for each of the 
        components and offices of the Department of Homeland Security 
        with responsibilities under the strategy.
            (2) Contents.--The implementation plan required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include an integrated master schedule and 
        cost estimate for activities and programs contained in the 
        implementation plan, with specificity on how each activity and 
        program aligns with near-term, mid-term, and long-term goals 
        specified in the strategy required under subsection (b).

SEC. 6. COUNTERING ONLINE RECRUITMENT OF VIOLENT EXTREMISTS.

    (a) Establishment of Countering Violent Extremism Labs.--In 
carrying out clause (xv) of section 308(b)(2)(B) of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 188(b)(2)(B)), as added by subsection 
(d), the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Under 
Secretary for Science and Technology and in coordination with the 
Office for Partnerships Against Violent Extremism, may--
            (1) establish one or more CVE Labs; and
            (2) reprioritize grants to centers for homeland security to 
        fund each CVE Lab.
    (b) Functions and Requirements of Countering Violent Extremism 
Labs.--
            (1) Requirements.--The head of an institution of higher 
        education at which a CVE Lab is established shall ensure that 
        the faculty of the CVE Lab--
                    (A) create a curriculum for participating students 
                to develop and test technology-based or data-driven CVE 
                solutions that--
                            (i) may be drawn from pre-existing 
                        curricula or courses at an institution of 
                        higher education;
                            (ii) incorporates a CVE orientation program 
                        for students participating in the CVE Lab that 
                        is informed by cross-cultural communication 
                        issues experienced by CVE practitioners; and
                            (iii) incorporates technology-based or 
                        data-driven business development curricula;
                    (B) invite Federal Government officials to 
                participate in the orientation required under 
                subparagraph (A)(ii);
                    (C) provide each participating student a CVE safety 
                briefing by Federal Government officials during the 
                orientation required under subparagraph (A)(ii) that 
                outlines precautions participating students can take to 
                protect themselves from becoming a target of 
                terrorists; and
                    (D) supervise any deployment of a technology-based 
                or data-driven CVE solution by a participating student.
            (2) Additional functions of countering violent extremism 
        labs.--The head of an institution of higher education at which 
        a CVE Lab is established shall ensure that the faculty of the 
        CVE Lab, in coordination with the Department of Homeland 
        Security and other appropriate entities including each CVE 
        Lab--
                    (A) develop a framework for participation and 
                support of other programs that encourage students to 
                develop peer-to-peer solutions for CVE;
                    (B) develop a common inventory of research, in 
                conjunction with other university-based centers for 
                homeland security that establish CVE Labs, on core CVE 
                issues to inform CVE Lab curricula in subsequent years; 
                and
                    (C) identify experts in CVE who can apply the 
                technology-based or data-driven CVE solutions to target 
                individuals who are susceptible to recruitment to 
                violent extremism.
            (3) Administration of cve lab.--The head of an institution 
        of higher education at which a CVE Lab is established--
                    (A) may--
                            (i) determine the department and faculty of 
                        the institution of higher education that will 
                        be responsible for administering the CVE Lab; 
                        and
                            (ii) have final approval of which students 
                        will participate in the CVE Lab; and
                    (B) shall ensure that the faculty administering the 
                CVE Lab, additional CVE Lab instructors and advisors, 
                and participating students represent an 
                interdisciplinary cross-section of the institution of 
                higher education, including disciplines not 
                traditionally associated with counterterrorism.
    (c) Assessment and Report.--
            (1) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date on which 
        a CVE Lab is first established, the head of the institution of 
        higher education at which the CVE Lab is established shall 
        submit to the Secretary of Homeland Security and the 
        appropriate congressional committees a report regarding the 
        impact of the CVE Lab.
            (2) Assessment.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting 
        through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology and in 
        coordination with the Office for Partnerships Against Violent 
        Extremism, shall--
                    (A) commission an independent third-party 
                assessment of the impact of each CVE Lab; and
                    (B) not later than 180 days after the date on which 
                the assessment required under subparagraph (A) is 
                completed, provide the assessment to the appropriate 
                congressional committees.
    (d) Functions of Centers for Homeland Security.--Section 
308(b)(2)(B) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
188(b)(2)(B)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(xv) Countering violent extremism.''.
    (e) Sunset.--Effective on the date that is 7 years after the date 
of enactment of this Act, subsections (a) through (d) are repealed.

SEC. 7. PUBLIC TESTIMONIALS FROM FORMER VIOLENT EXTREMISTS.

    (a) Incorporation of Testimonials.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security and the 
        Secretary of State shall incorporate, to the extent 
        practicable, into efforts of the Department of Homeland 
        Security and the Department of State to combat terrorist 
        recruitment and communications the public testimonials of 
        former or estranged violent extremists or their associates, 
        including friends and family.
            (2) Types of efforts.--The efforts made under paragraph (1) 
        may include the following:
                    (A) Strategic communications efforts to counter-
                message the communications and narratives of violent 
                extremists.
                    (B) Related community engagement and public 
                education efforts that have the goal of decreasing 
                recruitment into violent extremist organizations.
    (b) Coordination.--The Secretary of Homeland Security and the 
Secretary of State shall--
            (1) where appropriate, coordinate the actions described in 
        subsection (a) with the heads of other Federal departments and 
        agencies; and
            (2) as appropriate and to the extent practicable, engage 
        nongovernmental and international partners in the 
        identification and use of testimonials described in subsection 
        (a).
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
        in concert with the Secretary of State, shall submit to 
        Congress a report detailing any ways in which existing laws may 
        constrain or complicate the ability of the Department of 
        Homeland Security or the Department of State to collect 
        testimonials of former or estranged violent extremists or 
        incorporate those testimonials into efforts of the applicable 
        Department to combat terrorist recruitment and communications, 
        as required under subsection (a).
            (2) Annual homeland security report.--The Secretary of 
        Homeland Security shall submit to Congress an annual report 
        that includes--
                    (A) qualitative and quantitative metrics for 
                evaluating the success of the efforts of the Secretary 
                under subsection (a);
                    (B) a description of the steps taken by the 
                Secretary to evaluate the success of the efforts of the 
                Secretary under subsection (a); and
                    (C) a summary of how the Secretary ensures the 
                protection of civil rights and civil liberties in 
                incorporating testimonials under subsection (a).
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to require the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary of State 
to collect testimonials directly from former violent extremists or 
their associates, including friends and family.

SEC. 8. STUDENTS AGAINST VIOLENT EXTREMISM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) ISIS.--The term ``ISIS'' means the Islamic State of 
        Iraq and Syria, also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the 
        Levant.
            (2) Participating student.--The term ``participating 
        student'' means a student participating in--
                    (A) a course under the program implemented under 
                subsection (b); or
                    (B) another similar course at an institution of 
                higher education.
            (3) Target audience.--The term ``target audience'' means an 
        individual or group selected for influence, whose selection is 
        not made solely due to race, religion, or ethnic background.
    (b) Authorization of Students Against Violent Extremism Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting 
        through the Office for Partnerships Against Violent Extremism, 
        may implement a program that facilitates groups of students at 
        institutions of higher education throughout the world in 
        designing, piloting, implementing, and measuring the success of 
        a social or digital initiative, product, or tool that counters 
        the messaging of international or domestic terrorist 
        organizations communications and narratives as part of, or in 
        addition to, existing countering violent extremism efforts.
            (2) Requirements.--The program implemented under paragraph 
        (1) shall--
                    (A) be administered by a professor, part time, full 
                time, or adjunct, or other instructor at a 
                participating institution of higher education who is 
                selected by the institution of higher education;
                    (B) include the production of peer-appropriate 
                social and digital media campaigns;
                    (C) be renewed on an annual basis at each 
                participating institution of higher education; and
                    (D) require that each participating institution of 
                higher education adhere to all policies of the program, 
                as determined by the Office for Partnerships Against 
                Violent Extremism, including--
                            (i) the provision of a faculty mentor for 
                        the program; and
                            (ii) the reporting of program metrics to 
                        the Office for Partnerships Against Violent 
                        Extremism, as requested.
            (3) Training.--The Office for Partnerships Against Violent 
        Extremism shall coordinate with the Officer for Civil Rights 
        and Civil Liberties of the Department of Homeland Security to 
        ensure that participants in the program implemented under 
        paragraph (1) receive training in order to respect the privacy, 
        civil rights, and civil liberties of all individuals in the 
        program's target audiences and eschew notions of racial and 
        ethnic profiling.
    (c) Assessment and Report.--
            (1) Report on implementation.--Beginning in the first 
        fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act 
        and each fiscal year thereafter until the program described in 
        subsection (b) is implemented, the Office for Partnerships 
        Against Violent Extremism shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a report on the status of the 
        implementation of the program.
            (2) Assessments.--Beginning in the first fiscal year 
        beginning after the date on which the program described in 
        subsection (b) is implemented and in each of the 4 fiscal years 
        thereafter, the Office for Partnerships Against Violent 
        Extremism shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report evaluating the program, which shall 
        include--
                    (A) the number of students participating in the 
                program;
                    (B) the number and names of institutions of higher 
                education that are hosting the program in the United 
                States and internationally;
                    (C) an evaluation, using empirical evidence, of the 
                effectiveness of the program in empowering university 
                students to develop digital content that counters 
                violent extremist messaging;
                    (D) the metrics used to evaluate the effectiveness 
                of the program in reducing violent extremism;
                    (E) recommendations for improving or expanding 
                existing training opportunities and training 
                participation;
                    (F) the criteria used by participating students to 
                select target audiences; and
                    (G) the raw data reported by the institutions of 
                higher education to the Office for Partnerships Against 
                Violent Extremism under subsection (b)(2)(D)(ii).
    (d) Sunset.--This section shall expire on the date that is 5 years 
after the date of enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
