[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5912 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 537
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5912

                          [Report No. 114-693]

Making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 15, 2016

    Ms. Granger, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
following bill; which was committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and 
                          for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                 DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

    For necessary expenses of the Department of State and the Foreign 
Service not otherwise provided for, $6,093,181,000, of which up to 
$629,055,000 may remain available until September 30, 2018, and of 
which up to $1,899,479,000 may remain available until expended for 
Worldwide Security Protection: Provided, That funds made available 
under this heading shall be allocated in accordance with paragraphs (1) 
through (4) as follows:
            (1) Human resources.--For necessary expenses for training, 
        human resources management, and salaries, including employment 
        without regard to civil service and classification laws of 
        persons on a temporary basis (not to exceed $700,000), as 
        authorized by section 801 of the United States Information and 
        Educational Exchange Act of 1948, $2,541,247,000, of which up 
        to $463,417,000 is for Worldwide Security Protection.
            (2) Overseas programs.--For necessary expenses for the 
        regional bureaus of the Department of State and overseas 
        activities as authorized by law, $1,344,199,000.
            (3) Diplomatic policy and support.--For necessary expenses 
        for the functional bureaus of the Department of State, 
        including representation to certain international organizations 
        in which the United States participates pursuant to treaties 
        ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the Senate or 
        specific Acts of Congress, general administration, and arms 
        control, nonproliferation and disarmament activities as 
        authorized, $749,428,000.
            (4) Security programs.--For necessary expenses for security 
        activities, $1,458,307,000, of which up to $1,436,062,000 is 
        for Worldwide Security Protection.
            (5) Fees and payments collected.--In addition to amounts 
        otherwise made available under this heading--
                    (A) not to exceed $1,840,900 shall be derived from 
                fees collected from other executive agencies for lease 
                or use of facilities located at the International 
                Center in accordance with section 4 of the 
                International Center Act, and, in addition, as 
                authorized by section 5 of such Act, $1,320,000, to be 
                derived from the reserve authorized by such section, to 
                be used for the purposes set out in that section;
                    (B) as authorized by section 810 of the United 
                States Information and Educational Exchange Act, not to 
                exceed $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
                may be credited to this appropriation from fees or 
                other payments received from English teaching, library, 
                motion pictures, and publication programs and from fees 
                from educational advising and counseling and exchange 
                visitor programs; and
                    (C) not to exceed $15,000, which shall be derived 
                from reimbursements, surcharges, and fees for use of 
                Blair House facilities.
            (6) Transfer, reprogramming, and other matters.--
                    (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
                Act, funds may be reprogrammed within and between 
                paragraphs (1) through (4) under this heading subject 
                to section 7015 of this Act.
                    (B) Of the amount made available under this 
                heading, not to exceed $14,000,000 may be transferred 
                to, and merged with, funds made available by this Act 
                under the heading ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and 
                Consular Service'', to be available only for emergency 
                evacuations and rewards, as authorized.
                    (C) Funds appropriated under this heading are 
                available for acquisition by exchange or purchase of 
                passenger motor vehicles as authorized by law and, 
                pursuant to section 1108(g) of title 31, United States 
                Code, for the field examination of programs and 
                activities in the United States funded from any account 
                contained in this title.
                    (D) Funds appropriated under this heading may be 
                made available for Conflict Stabilization Operations 
                and for related reconstruction and stabilization 
                assistance to prevent or respond to conflict or civil 
                strife in foreign countries or regions, or to enable 
                transition from such strife.
                    (E) Funds appropriated under this heading in this 
                Act that are designated for Worldwide Security 
                Protection shall continue to be made available for 
                support of security-related training at sites in 
                existence prior to the enactment of this Act.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses of the Capital Investment Fund, $12,600,000, 
to remain available until expended, as authorized.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$87,069,000, notwithstanding section 209(a)(1) of the Foreign Service 
Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465), as it relates to post inspections: 
Provided, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$13,060,000 may remain available until September 30, 2018.

               educational and cultural exchange programs

    For expenses of educational and cultural exchange programs, as 
authorized, $602,790,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
not less than $236,000,000 shall be for the Fulbright Program and not 
less than $112,000,000 shall be for Citizen Exchange Program, including 
$4,125,000 for the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange: Provided, That 
fees or other payments received from, or in connection with, English 
teaching, educational advising and counseling programs, and exchange 
visitor programs as authorized may be credited to this account, to 
remain available until expended: Provided further, That not later than 
45 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing 
modifications made to existing educational and cultural exchange 
programs since calendar year 2015, including for special academic and 
special professional and cultural exchanges: Provided further, That any 
substantive modifications from the prior fiscal year to programs funded 
by this Act under this heading shall be subject to prior consultation 
with, and the regular notification procedures of, the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                        representation expenses

    For representation expenses as authorized, $8,030,000.

              protection of foreign missions and officials

    For expenses, not otherwise provided, to enable the Secretary of 
State to provide for extraordinary protective services, as authorized, 
$30,036,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

            embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the Foreign Service 
Buildings Act of 1926 (22 U.S.C. 292 et seq.), preserving, maintaining, 
repairing, and planning for buildings that are owned or directly leased 
by the Department of State, renovating, in addition to funds otherwise 
available, the Harry S Truman Building, and carrying out the Diplomatic 
Security Construction Program as authorized, $759,161,000, to remain 
available until expended as authorized, of which not to exceed $25,000 
may be used for domestic and overseas representation expenses as 
authorized: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated in this 
paragraph shall be available for acquisition of furniture, furnishings, 
or generators for other departments and agencies.
    In addition, for the costs of worldwide security upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized, $358,698,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not later than 45 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations the proposed allocation of funds made 
available under this heading and the actual and anticipated proceeds of 
sales for all projects in fiscal year 2017.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For necessary expenses to enable the Secretary of State to meet 
unforeseen emergencies arising in the Diplomatic and Consular Service, 
$7,900,000, to remain available until expended as authorized, of which 
not to exceed $1,000,000 may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Repatriation Loans Program 
Account'', subject to the same terms and conditions.

                   repatriation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $2,300,000, as authorized: Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That such funds are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$4,305,000.

              payment to the american institute in taiwan

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Taiwan Relations Act 
(Public Law 96-8), $30,000,000.

     payment to the foreign service retirement and disability fund

    For payment to the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, 
as authorized, $158,900,000.

                      International Organizations

              contributions to international organizations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet annual 
obligations of membership in international multilateral organizations, 
pursuant to treaties ratified pursuant to the advice and consent of the 
Senate, conventions or specific Acts of Congress, $1,279,384,000: 
Provided, That the Secretary of State shall, at the time of the 
submission of the President's budget to Congress under section 1105(a) 
of title 31, United States Code, transmit to the Committees on 
Appropriations the most recent biennial budget prepared by the United 
Nations for the operations of the United Nations: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of State shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations at least 15 days in advance (or in an emergency, as far 
in advance as is practicable) of any United Nations action to increase 
funding for any United Nations program without identifying an 
offsetting decrease elsewhere in the United Nations budget: Provided 
further, That not later than May 1, 2017, and 30 days after the end of 
fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees 
on Appropriations any credits available to the United States, including 
from the United Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and provide updated 
fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year 2018 assessment costs including 
offsets from available credits and updated foreign currency exchange 
rates: Provided further, That any such credits shall only be available 
for United States assessed contributions to the United Nations and the 
Committees on Appropriations shall be notified when such credits are 
applied to any assessed contribution, including any payment of 
arrearages: Provided further, That any notification regarding funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this heading in this Act 
or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs submitted pursuant to section 
7015 of this Act, section 34 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706), or any operating plan submitted pursuant 
to section 7076 of this Act, shall include an estimate of all known 
credits currently available to the United States and provide updated 
assessment costs including offsets from available credits and updated 
foreign currency exchange rates: Provided further, That any payment of 
arrearages under this heading shall be directed to activities that are 
mutually agreed upon by the United States and the respective 
international organization and shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be available for a United States contribution to an international 
organization for the United States share of interest costs made known 
to the United States Government by such organization for loans incurred 
on or after October 1, 1984, through external borrowings.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For necessary expenses to pay assessed and other expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities directed to the maintenance or 
restoration of international peace and security, $563,866,000, of which 
15 percent shall remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, 
That none of the funds made available by this Act shall be obligated or 
expended for any new or expanded United Nations peacekeeping mission 
unless, at least 15 days in advance of voting for such mission in the 
United Nations Security Council (or in an emergency as far in advance 
as is practicable), the Committees on Appropriations are notified of: 
(1) the estimated cost and duration of the mission, the objectives of 
the mission, the national interest that will be served, and the exit 
strategy; and (2) the sources of funds, including any reprogrammings 
and transfers, that will be used to pay the cost of the new or expanded 
mission, and the estimated cost in future fiscal years: Provided 
further, That none of the funds appropriated under this heading may be 
made available for obligation unless the Secretary of State certifies 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations on a peacekeeping 
mission-by-mission basis that the United Nations is implementing 
effective policies and procedures to prevent United Nations employees, 
contractor personnel, and peacekeeping troops serving in such mission 
from trafficking in persons, exploiting victims of trafficking, or 
committing acts of illegal sexual exploitation or other violations of 
human rights, and to bring to justice individuals who engage in such 
acts while participating in such mission, including prosecution in 
their home countries and making information about such prosecutions 
publicly available on the Web site of the United Nations: Provided 
further, That in making the required certification and report in the 
previous proviso, the Secretary of State shall evaluate and report on 
whether each mission has established and is effectively implementing 
the policies and procedures described under this heading in the report 
accompanying this Act: Provided further, That funds shall be available 
for peacekeeping expenses unless the Secretary of State determines that 
American manufacturers and suppliers are not being given opportunities 
to provide equipment, services, and material for United Nations 
peacekeeping activities equal to those being given to foreign 
manufacturers and suppliers: Provided further, That the Secretary of 
State shall work with the United Nations and foreign governments 
contributing peacekeeping troops to implement effective vetting 
procedures to ensure that such troops have not violated human rights: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this heading may be used for any United Nations 
peacekeeping mission that will involve United States Armed Forces under 
the command or operational control of a foreign national, unless the 
President's military advisors have submitted to the President a 
recommendation that such involvement is in the national interest of the 
United States and the President has submitted to Congress such a 
recommendation: Provided further, That not later than May 1, 2017, and 
30 days after the end of fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of State shall 
report to the Committees on Appropriations any credits available to the 
United States, including those resulting from United Nations 
peacekeeping missions or the United Nations Tax Equalization Fund, and 
provide updated fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year 2018 assessment costs 
including offsets from available credits: Provided further, That any 
such credits shall only be available for United States assessed 
contributions to the United Nations, and the Committees on 
Appropriations shall be notified when such credits are applied to any 
assessed contribution, including any payment of arrearages: Provided 
further, That any notification regarding funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available under this heading in this Act or prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs submitted pursuant to section 7015 of this Act, 
section 34 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2706), or any operating plan submitted pursuant to section 7076 
of this Act, shall include an estimate of all known credits currently 
available to the United States and provide updated assessment costs 
including offsets from available credits: Provided further, That any 
payment of arrearages with funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall 
work with the United Nations and members of the United Nations Security 
Council to evaluate and prioritize peacekeeping missions, and to 
consider a draw down when mission goals have been substantially 
achieved.

                       International Commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, to meet 
obligations of the United States arising under treaties, or specific 
Acts of Congress, as follows:

 international boundary and water commission, united states and mexico

    For necessary expenses for the United States Section of the 
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 
and to comply with laws applicable to the United States Section, 
including not to exceed $6,000 for representation expenses; as follows:

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses, not otherwise provided for, $45,307,000.

                              construction

    For detailed plan preparation and construction of authorized 
projects, $29,400,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized.

              american sections, international commissions

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for the 
International Joint Commission and the International Boundary 
Commission, United States and Canada, as authorized by treaties between 
the United States and Canada or Great Britain, and the Border 
Environment Cooperation Commission as authorized by the North American 
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Public Law 103-182), 
$12,258,000: Provided, That of the amount provided under this heading 
for the International Joint Commission, up to $500,000 may remain 
available until September 30, 2018, and $9,000 may be made available 
for representation expenses.

                  international fisheries commissions

    For necessary expenses for international fisheries commissions, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by law, $36,681,000: Provided, 
That the United States share of such expenses may be advanced to the 
respective commissions pursuant to section 3324 of title 31, United 
States Code.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 international broadcasting operations

    For necessary expenses to enable the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors (BBG), as authorized, to carry out international 
communication activities, and to make and supervise grants for radio, 
Internet, and television broadcasting to the Middle East, $758,267,000: 
Provided, That in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes, up to $38,348,000 of the amount appropriated under this 
heading may remain available until expended for satellite transmissions 
and Internet freedom programs, of which not less than $15,000,000 shall 
be for Internet freedom programs: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $35,000 may be 
used for representation expenses, of which $10,000 may be used for such 
expenses within the United States as authorized, and not to exceed 
$30,000 may be used for representation expenses of Radio Free Europe/
Radio Liberty: Provided further, That the authority provided by section 
504(c) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 
(Public Law 107-228; 22 U.S.C. 6206 note) shall remain in effect 
through September 30, 2017: Provided further, That the BBG shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations within 15 days of any determination by 
the Board that any of its broadcast entities, including its grantee 
organizations, provides an open platform for international terrorists 
or those who support international terrorism, or is in violation of the 
principles and standards set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of 
section 303 of the United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994 
(22 U.S.C. 6202) or the entity's journalistic code of ethics: Provided 
further, That significant modifications to BBG broadcast hours 
previously justified to Congress, including changes to transmission 
platforms (shortwave, medium wave, satellite, Internet, and 
television), for all BBG language services shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That in addition to funds made available under this 
heading, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, up to 
$5,000,000 in receipts from advertising and revenue from business 
ventures, up to $500,000 in receipts from cooperating international 
organizations, and up to $1,000,000 in receipts from privatization 
efforts of the Voice of America and the International Broadcasting 
Bureau, shall remain available until expended for carrying out 
authorized purposes.

                   broadcasting capital improvements

    For the purchase, rent, construction, repair, preservation, and 
improvement of facilities for radio, television, and digital 
transmission and reception; the purchase, rent, and installation of 
necessary equipment for radio, television, and digital transmission and 
reception, including to Cuba, as authorized; and physical security 
worldwide, in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes, $8,876,000, to remain available until expended, as 
authorized.

                            RELATED PROGRAMS

                          The Asia Foundation

    For a grant to The Asia Foundation, as authorized by The Asia 
Foundation Act (22 U.S.C. 4402), $17,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                    United States Institute of Peace

    For necessary expenses of the United States Institute of Peace, as 
authorized by the United States Institute of Peace Act (22 U.S.C. 4601 
et seq.), $35,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, 
which shall not be used for construction activities.

         Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund

    For necessary expenses of the Center for Middle Eastern-Western 
Dialogue Trust Fund, as authorized by section 633 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2004 (22 U.S.C. 2078), the total amount of the 
interest and earnings accruing to such Fund on or before September 30, 
2017, to remain available until expended.

                 Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program

    For necessary expenses of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, 
Incorporated, as authorized by sections 4 and 5 of the Eisenhower 
Exchange Fellowship Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5204-5205), all interest and 
earnings accruing to the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program Trust 
Fund on or before September 30, 2017, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be 
used to pay any salary or other compensation, or to enter into any 
contract providing for the payment thereof, in excess of the rate 
authorized by section 5376 of title 5, United States Code; or for 
purposes which are not in accordance with section 200 of title 2 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations, including the restrictions on compensation 
for personal services.

                    Israeli Arab Scholarship Program

    For necessary expenses of the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program, as 
authorized by section 214 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452), all interest and earnings 
accruing to the Israeli Arab Scholarship Fund on or before September 
30, 2017, to remain available until expended.

                    National Endowment for Democracy

    For grants made by the Department of State to the National 
Endowment for Democracy, as authorized by the National Endowment for 
Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4412), $170,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $117,500,000 shall be allocated in the traditional 
and customary manner, including for the core institutes, and 
$52,500,000 shall be for democracy programs.

                           OTHER COMMISSIONS

      Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Commission for the Preservation of 
America's Heritage Abroad, $888,000, as authorized by chapter 3123 of 
title 54, United States Code: Provided, That the Commission may procure 
temporary, intermittent, and other services notwithstanding paragraph 
(3) of section 312304(b) of such chapter: Provided further, That such 
authority shall terminate on October 1, 2017: Provided further, That 
the Commission shall notify the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
exercising such authority.

      United States Commission on International Religious Freedom

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the United States Commission on 
International Religious Freedom, as authorized by title II of the 
International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6431 et seq.), 
$3,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, including not 
more than $4,000 for representation expenses.

            Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe, as authorized by Public Law 94-304, $2,579,000, 
including not more than $4,000 for representation expenses, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

  Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Congressional-Executive Commission on 
the People's Republic of China, as authorized by title III of the U.S.-
China Relations Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 6911 et seq.), $2,000,000, 
including not more than $3,000 for representation expenses, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

      United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States-China Economic and 
Security Review Commission, as authorized by section 1238 of the Floyd 
D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (22 
U.S.C. 7002), $3,500,000, including not more than $4,000 for 
representation expenses, to remain available until September 30, 2018: 
Provided, That the authorities, requirements, limitations, and 
conditions contained in the second through sixth provisos under this 
heading in the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F of Public Law 111-117) 
shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2017 and shall apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading as if included in this Act.

                                TITLE II

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $1,184,416,000, of which up to 
$177,662,000 may remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading and under the 
heading ``Capital Investment Fund'' in this title may be made available 
to finance the construction (including architect and engineering 
services), purchase, or long-term lease of offices for use by the 
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), unless the 
USAID Administrator has identified such proposed use of funds in a 
report submitted to the Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days 
prior to the obligation of funds for such purposes: Provided further, 
That contracts or agreements entered into with funds appropriated under 
this heading may entail commitments for the expenditure of such funds 
through the following fiscal year: Provided further, That the authority 
of sections 610 and 109 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be 
exercised by the Secretary of State to transfer funds appropriated to 
carry out chapter 1 of part I of such Act to ``Operating Expenses'' in 
accordance with the provisions of those sections: Provided further, 
That of the funds appropriated or made available under this heading, 
not to exceed $250,000 may be available for representation and 
entertainment expenses, of which not to exceed $5,000 may be available 
for entertainment expenses, and not to exceed $100,500 shall be for 
official residence expenses, for USAID during the current fiscal year.

                        capital investment fund

    For necessary expenses for overseas construction and related costs, 
and for the procurement and enhancement of information technology and 
related capital investments, pursuant to section 667 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $199,985,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That this amount is in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes: Provided further, That funds appropriated 
under this heading shall be available subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $67,600,000, of which up to 
$10,140,000 may remain available until September 30, 2018, for the 
Office of Inspector General of the United States Agency for 
International Development.

                               TITLE III

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

    For necessary expenses to enable the President to carry out the 
provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and for other 
purposes, as follows:

                         global health programs

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapters 1 
and 10 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, for global 
health activities, in addition to funds otherwise available for such 
purposes, $3,246,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, 
and which shall be apportioned directly to the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID): Provided, That this amount shall be 
made available for training, equipment, and technical assistance to 
build the capacity of public health institutions and organizations in 
developing countries, and for such activities as: (1) child survival 
and maternal health programs; (2) immunization and oral rehydration 
programs; (3) other health, nutrition, water and sanitation programs 
which directly address the needs of mothers and children, and related 
education programs; (4) assistance for children displaced or orphaned 
by causes other than AIDS; (5) programs for the prevention, treatment, 
control of, and research on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, polio, malaria, and 
other infectious diseases including neglected tropical diseases, and 
for assistance to communities severely affected by HIV/AIDS, including 
children infected or affected by AIDS; (6) disaster preparedness 
training for health crises; (7) programs to promote global health 
security and address emerging health threats; and (8) family planning/
reproductive health: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this paragraph may be made available for a United States contribution 
to GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, and the United Nations Children's Fund: 
Provided further, That none of the funds made available in this Act nor 
any unobligated balances from prior appropriations Acts may be made 
available to any organization or program which, as determined by the 
President of the United States, supports or participates in the 
management of a program of coercive abortion or involuntary 
sterilization: Provided further, That any determination made under the 
previous proviso must be made not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and must be accompanied by the evidence and 
criteria utilized to make the determination: Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available under this Act may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortion as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions: Provided further, 
That nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to alter any existing 
statutory prohibitions against abortion under section 104 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available under this Act may be used to lobby for or against 
abortion: Provided further, That in order to reduce reliance on 
abortion in developing nations, funds shall be available only to 
voluntary family planning projects which offer, either directly or 
through referral to, or information about access to, a broad range of 
family planning methods and services, and that any such voluntary 
family planning project shall meet the following requirements: (1) 
service providers or referral agents in the project shall not implement 
or be subject to quotas, or other numerical targets, of total number of 
births, number of family planning acceptors, or acceptors of a 
particular method of family planning (this provision shall not be 
construed to include the use of quantitative estimates or indicators 
for budgeting and planning purposes); (2) the project shall not include 
payment of incentives, bribes, gratuities, or financial reward to: (A) 
an individual in exchange for becoming a family planning acceptor; or 
(B) program personnel for achieving a numerical target or quota of 
total number of births, number of family planning acceptors, or 
acceptors of a particular method of family planning; (3) the project 
shall not deny any right or benefit, including the right of access to 
participate in any program of general welfare or the right of access to 
health care, as a consequence of any individual's decision not to 
accept family planning services; (4) the project shall provide family 
planning acceptors comprehensible information on the health benefits 
and risks of the method chosen, including those conditions that might 
render the use of the method inadvisable and those adverse side effects 
known to be consequent to the use of the method; and (5) the project 
shall ensure that experimental contraceptive drugs and devices and 
medical procedures are provided only in the context of a scientific 
study in which participants are advised of potential risks and 
benefits; and, not less than 60 days after the date on which the USAID 
Administrator determines that there has been a violation of the 
requirements contained in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (5) of this 
proviso, or a pattern or practice of violations of the requirements 
contained in paragraph (4) of this proviso, the Administrator shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations a report containing a 
description of such violation and the corrective action taken by the 
Agency: Provided further, That in awarding grants for natural family 
planning under section 104 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no 
applicant shall be discriminated against because of such applicant's 
religious or conscientious commitment to offer only natural family 
planning; and, additionally, all such applicants shall comply with the 
requirements of the previous proviso: Provided further, That for 
purposes of this or any other Act authorizing or appropriating funds 
for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs, 
the term ``motivate'', as it relates to family planning assistance, 
shall not be construed to prohibit the provision, consistent with local 
law, of information or counseling about all pregnancy options: Provided 
further, That information provided about the use of condoms as part of 
projects or activities that are funded from amounts appropriated by 
this Act shall be medically accurate and shall include the public 
health benefits and failure rates of such use.
    In addition, for necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the prevention, treatment, and 
control of, and research on, HIV/AIDS, $5,670,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021, which shall be apportioned directly 
to the Department of State: Provided, That funds appropriated under 
this paragraph may be made available, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, except for the United States Leadership Against HIV/
AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-25), as 
amended, for a United States contribution to the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund), and shall be expended at 
the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for projects and 
activities: Provided further, That up to 5 percent of the aggregate 
amount of funds made available to the Global Fund in fiscal year 2017 
may be made available to USAID for technical assistance related to the 
activities of the Global Fund, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
of the funds appropriated under this paragraph, up to $17,000,000 may 
be made available, in addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purposes, for administrative expenses of the Office of the United 
States Global AIDS Coordinator.

                         development assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of sections 103, 
105, 106, 214, and sections 251 through 255, and chapter 10 of part I 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $2,780,971,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                   international disaster assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 491 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for international disaster 
relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction assistance, $909,057,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                         transition initiatives

    For necessary expenses for international disaster rehabilitation 
and reconstruction assistance administered by the Office of Transition 
Initiatives, United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID), pursuant to section 491 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
$40,600,000, to remain available until expended, to support transition 
to democracy and long-term development of countries in crisis: 
Provided, That such support may include assistance to develop, 
strengthen, or preserve democratic institutions and processes, 
revitalize basic infrastructure, and foster the peaceful resolution of 
conflict: Provided further, That the USAID Administrator shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days prior to 
beginning a new program of assistance: Provided further, That if the 
Secretary of State determines that it is important to the national 
interest of the United States to provide transition assistance in 
excess of the amount appropriated under this heading, up to $15,000,000 
of the funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used for purposes 
of this heading and under the authorities applicable to funds 
appropriated under this heading: Provided further, That funds made 
available pursuant to the previous proviso shall be made available 
subject to prior consultation with the Committees on Appropriations.

                      development credit authority

    For the cost of direct loans and loan guarantees provided by the 
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), as 
authorized by sections 256 and 635 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, up to $40,000,000 may be derived by transfer from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out part I of such Act and under the 
heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'': Provided, 
That funds provided under this paragraph and funds provided as a gift 
that are used for purposes of this paragraph pursuant to section 635(d) 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be made available only for 
micro- and small enterprise programs, urban programs, and other 
programs which further the purposes of part I of such Act: Provided 
further, That funds provided as a gift that are used for purposes of 
this paragraph shall be subject to prior consultation and the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That such costs, including the cost of modifying such direct 
and guaranteed loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That 
funds made available by this paragraph may be used for the cost of 
modifying any such guaranteed loans under this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs, and funds used for such costs, including if the costs 
result in a negative subsidy, shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That the provisions of section 107A(d) (relating to general 
provisions applicable to the Development Credit Authority) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as contained in section 306 of H.R. 
1486 as reported by the House Committee on International Relations on 
May 9, 1997, shall be applicable to direct loans and loan guarantees 
provided under this heading, except that the principal amount of loans 
made or guaranteed under this heading with respect to any single 
country shall not exceed $300,000,000: Provided further, That these 
funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any portion of 
which is to be guaranteed, of up to $1,500,000,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out credit 
programs administered by USAID, $8,120,000, which may be transferred 
to, and merged with, funds made available under the heading ``Operating 
Expenses'' in title II of this Act: Provided, That funds made available 
under this heading shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

                         economic support fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $1,601,559,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018.

                             democracy fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 for the promotion of democracy globally, 
$150,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, of which 
$82,250,000 shall be made available for the Human Rights and Democracy 
Fund of the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, Department of 
State, and $68,250,000 shall be made available for the Bureau for 
Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, United States Agency 
for International Development.

            assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, the FREEDOM Support Act (Public Law 102-511), 
and the Support for Eastern European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 
(Public Law 101-179), $491,119,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2018, which shall be available, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, except section 7070 of this Act, for assistance and related 
programs for countries identified in section 3 of Public Law 102-511 
and section 3(c) of Public Law 101-179, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes: Provided, That funds appropriated by this 
Act under the headings ``Global Health Programs'' and ``Economic 
Support Fund'' that are made available for assistance for such 
countries shall be administered in accordance with the responsibilities 
of the coordinator designated pursuant to section 102 of Public Law 
102-511 and section 601 of Public Law 101-179: Provided further, That 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be considered to be 
economic assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
purposes of making available the administrative authorities contained 
in that Act for the use of economic assistance.

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For necessary expenses not otherwise provided for, to enable the 
Secretary of State to carry out the provisions of section 2(a) and (b) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, and other 
activities to meet refugee and migration needs; salaries and expenses 
of personnel and dependents as authorized by the Foreign Service Act of 
1980; allowances as authorized by sections 5921 through 5925 of title 
5, United States Code; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, $771,096,000, to remain available until expended, of which not 
less than $35,000,000 shall be made available to respond to small-scale 
emergency humanitarian requirements, $7,500,000 shall be made available 
for refugees resettling in Israel, and not more than $394,254,000 shall 
be made available for the United States Refugee Admissions Program.

                          Independent Agencies

                              peace corps

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Peace 
Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), including the purchase of not to 
exceed five passenger motor vehicles for administrative purposes for 
use outside of the United States, $410,000,000, of which $5,150,000 is 
for the Office of Inspector General, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018: Provided, That the Director of the Peace Corps may 
transfer to the Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account, as authorized by 
section 16 of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2515), an amount not to 
exceed $5,000,000: Provided further, That funds transferred pursuant to 
the previous proviso may not be derived from amounts made available for 
Peace Corps overseas operations: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $104,000 may be 
available for representation expenses, of which not to exceed $4,000 
may be made available for entertainment expenses: Provided further, 
That any decision to open, close, significantly reduce, or suspend a 
domestic or overseas office or country program shall be subject to 
prior consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, 
the Committees on Appropriations, except that prior consultation and 
regular notification procedures may be waived when there is a 
substantial security risk to volunteers or other Peace Corps personnel, 
pursuant to section 7015(e) of this Act: Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated under this heading shall be used to pay for 
abortions: Provided further, That notwithstanding the previous proviso, 
section 614 of division E of Public Law 113-76 shall apply to funds 
appropriated under this heading.

                    millennium challenge corporation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the 
Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.) (MCA), 
$901,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, up to $105,000,000 may be 
available for administrative expenses of the Millennium Challenge 
Corporation (the Corporation): Provided further, That up to 5 percent 
of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made available to 
carry out the purposes of section 616 of the MCA for fiscal year 2017: 
Provided further, That section 605(e) of the MCA shall apply to funds 
appropriated under this heading: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available for a Millennium 
Challenge Compact entered into pursuant to section 609 of the MCA only 
if such Compact obligates, or contains a commitment to obligate subject 
to the availability of funds and the mutual agreement of the parties to 
the Compact to proceed, the entire amount of the United States 
Government funding anticipated for the duration of the Compact: 
Provided further, That the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations not later than 15 days 
prior to commencing negotiations for any country compact or threshold 
country program; signing any such compact or threshold program; or 
terminating or suspending any such compact or threshold program: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading by this 
Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs that are available to 
implement section 609(g) of the MCA shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That no country should be eligible for a threshold program 
after such country has completed a country compact: Provided further, 
That any funds that are deobligated from a Millennium Challenge Compact 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations prior to re-obligation: Provided further, 
That publication in the Federal Register of a notice of availability of 
a copy of a Compact on the Millennium Challenge Corporation Web site 
shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of section 610(b)(2) of the 
MCA for such Compact: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available by this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be 
available for a threshold program in a country that is not currently a 
candidate country: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not to exceed $100,000 may be available for 
representation and entertainment expenses, of which not to exceed 
$5,000 may be available for entertainment expenses.

                       inter-american foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out the functions of the Inter-
American Foundation in accordance with the provisions of section 401 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, $22,500,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018: Provided, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, not to exceed $2,000 may be available for 
representation expenses.

              united states african development foundation

    For necessary expenses to carry out title V of the International 
Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533), 
$30,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, of which not 
to exceed $2,000 may be available for representation expenses:  
Provided, That funds made available to grantees may be invested pending 
expenditure for project purposes when authorized by the Board of 
Directors of the United States African Development Foundation (USADF): 
Provided further, That interest earned shall be used only for the 
purposes for which the grant was made: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 505(a)(2) of the African Development Foundation 
Act, in exceptional circumstances the Board of Directors of the USADF 
may waive the $250,000 limitation contained in that section with 
respect to a project and a project may exceed the limitation by up to 
10 percent if the increase is due solely to foreign currency 
fluctuation: Provided further, That the USADF shall submit a report to 
the Committees on Appropriations after each time such waiver authority 
is exercised: Provided further, That the USADF may make rent or lease 
payments in advance from appropriations available for such purpose for 
offices, buildings, grounds, and quarters in Africa as may be necessary 
to carry out its functions: Provided further, That the USADF may 
maintain bank accounts outside the United States Treasury and retain 
any interest earned on such accounts, in furtherance of the purposes of 
the African Foundation Development Act: Provided further, That the 
USADF may not withdraw any appropriation from the Treasury prior to the 
need of spending such funds for program purposes.

                       Department of the Treasury

               international affairs technical assistance

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 129 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $28,500,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2019, which shall be available notwithstanding any 
other provision of law.

                                TITLE IV

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For necessary expenses to carry out section 481 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, $1,003,570,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018: Provided, That the Department of State may use the 
authority of section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, without 
regard to its restrictions, to receive excess property from an agency 
of the United States Government for the purpose of providing such 
property to a foreign country or international organization under 
chapter 8 of part I of that Act, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
section 482(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply to 
funds appropriated under this heading, except that any funds made 
available notwithstanding such section shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be made 
available to support training and technical assistance for foreign law 
enforcement, corrections, and other judicial authorities, utilizing 
regional partners: Provided further, That funds made available under 
this heading that are transferred to another department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States Government pursuant to section 
632(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess of 
$5,000,000, and any agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) of such 
Act, shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For necessary expenses for nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, 
demining and related programs and activities, $506,381,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018, to carry out the provisions of 
chapter 8 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for anti-
terrorism assistance, chapter 9 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, section 504 of the FREEDOM Support Act, section 23 of the 
Arms Export Control Act, or the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for 
demining activities, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, the 
destruction of small arms, and related activities, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, including activities implemented through 
nongovernmental and international organizations, and section 301 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for a United States contribution to the 
Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Preparatory Commission, and for a 
voluntary contribution to the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA): Provided, That the Secretary of State shall inform the 
appropriate congressional committees of information regarding any 
separate arrangements relating to the ``Road-map for the Clarification 
of Past and Present Outstanding Issues Regarding Iran's Nuclear 
Program'' between the IAEA and the Islamic Republic of Iran, in 
classified form if necessary, if such information becomes known to the 
Department of State: Provided further, That funds made available under 
this heading for the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund shall be 
available notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to 
prior consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, 
the Committees on Appropriations, to promote bilateral and multilateral 
activities relating to nonproliferation, disarmament, and weapons 
destruction, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That such funds may also be used for such countries other than 
the Independent States of the former Soviet Union and international 
organizations when it is in the national security interest of the 
United States to do so: Provided further, That funds appropriated under 
this heading may be made available for the IAEA unless the Secretary of 
State determines that Israel is being denied its right to participate 
in the activities of that Agency: Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $175,000,000 shall be made available 
for the Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund and shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, of 
which not less than $95,000,000 shall be made available for non-lethal 
assistance to the security forces of the Kurdistan Regional Government: 
Provided further, That funds made available pursuant to the previous 
proviso for assistance for the security forces of the Kurdistan 
Regional Government shall be administered by the Assistant Secretary 
for Near Eastern Affairs, Department of State, in consultation with the 
Assistant Secretary for Political-Military Affairs, Department of State 
and may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated under 
the heading ``Peacekeeping Operations'': Provided further, That the 
transfer authority of the previous proviso is in addition to any 
transfer authority otherwise available under any other provision of 
law: Provided further, That funds made available for conventional 
weapons destruction programs, including demining and related 
activities, in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes, 
may be used for administrative expenses related to the operation and 
management of such programs and activities, subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 551 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $162,254,000: Provided, That 
funds appropriated under this heading may be used, notwithstanding 
section 660 of such Act, to provide assistance to enhance the capacity 
of foreign civilian security forces, including gendarmes, to 
participate in peacekeeping operations: Provided further, That of the 
funds appropriated under this heading, not less than $44,500,000 shall 
be made available for a United States contribution to the Multinational 
Force and Observers mission in the Sinai: Provided further, That none 
of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be obligated except 
as provided through the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

             international military education and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 541 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $110,300,000, of which up to 
$6,000,000 may remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, 
That the civilian personnel for whom military education and training 
may be provided under this heading may include civilians who are not 
members of a government whose participation would contribute to 
improved civil-military relations, civilian control of the military, or 
respect for human rights: Provided further, That of the funds 
appropriated under this heading, not to exceed $55,000 may be available 
for entertainment expenses.

                   foreign military financing program

    For necessary expenses for grants to enable the President to carry 
out the provisions of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act, 
$4,795,612,000: Provided, That to expedite the provision of assistance 
to foreign countries and international organizations, the Secretary of 
State, following consultation with the Committees on Appropriations and 
subject to the regular notification procedures of such Committees, may 
use the funds appropriated under this heading to procure defense 
articles and services to enhance the capacity of foreign security 
forces: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not less than $3,100,000,000 shall be available for grants 
only for Israel, and funds are available for assistance for Jordan and 
Egypt subject to section 7041 of this Act: Provided further, That the 
funds appropriated under this heading for assistance for Israel shall 
be disbursed within 30 days of enactment of this Act: Provided further, 
That to the extent that the Government of Israel requests that funds be 
used for such purposes, grants made available for Israel under this 
heading shall, as agreed by the United States and Israel, be available 
for advanced weapons systems, of which not less than $815,300,000 shall 
be available for the procurement in Israel of defense articles and 
defense services, including research and development: Provided further, 
That none of the funds made available under this heading shall be made 
available to support or continue any program initially funded under the 
authority of section 1206 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3456), or section 2282 
of title 10, United States Code, unless the Secretary of State, in 
coordination with the Secretary of Defense, has justified such program 
to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available under this heading shall be 
nonrepayable notwithstanding any requirement in section 23 of the Arms 
Export Control Act: Provided further, That funds made available under 
this heading shall be obligated upon apportionment in accordance with 
paragraph (5)(c) of section 1501(a) of title 31, United States Code.
    None of the funds made available under this heading shall be 
available to finance the procurement of defense articles, defense 
services, or design and construction services that are not sold by the 
United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act unless the 
foreign country proposing to make such procurement has first signed an 
agreement with the United States Government specifying the conditions 
under which such procurement may be financed with such funds: Provided, 
That all country and funding level increases in allocations shall be 
submitted through the regular notification procedures of section 7015 
of this Act: Provided further, That funds made available under this 
heading may be used, notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
demining, the clearance of unexploded ordnance, and related activities, 
and may include activities implemented through nongovernmental and 
international organizations: Provided further, That only those 
countries for which assistance was justified for the ``Foreign Military 
Sales Financing Program'' in the fiscal year 1989 congressional 
presentation for security assistance programs may utilize funds made 
available under this heading for procurement of defense articles, 
defense services, or design and construction services that are not sold 
by the United States Government under the Arms Export Control Act: 
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
expended at the minimum rate necessary to make timely payment for 
defense articles and services: Provided further, That not less than 
$80,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
obligated for necessary expenses, including the purchase of passenger 
motor vehicles for replacement only for use outside of the United 
States, for the general costs of administering military assistance and 
sales: Provided further, That of the funds made available under this 
heading for general costs of administering military assistance and 
sales, not to exceed $4,000 may be available for entertainment expenses 
and not to exceed $130,000 may be available for representation 
expenses: Provided further, That not more than $920,200,000 of funds 
realized pursuant to section 21(e)(1)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act 
may be obligated for expenses incurred by the Department of Defense 
during fiscal year 2017 pursuant to section 43(b) of the Arms Export 
Control Act, except that this limitation may be exceeded through the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                                TITLE V

                        MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE

                  International Financial Institutions

                      global environment facility

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development as trustee for the Global Environment Facility by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $146,563,000, to remain available until 
expended.

       contribution to the international development association

    For payment to the International Development Association by the 
Secretary of the Treasury, $1,197,128,000, to remain available until 
expended.

     contribution to the international bank for reconstruction and 
                              development

    For payment to the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development by the Secretary of the Treasury for the United States 
share of the paid-in portion of the increases in capital stock, 
$5,963,000, to remain available until expended.

          contribution to the inter-american development bank

    For payment to the Inter-American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of 
the increase in capital stock, $21,940,000, to remain available until 
expended.

               contribution to the asian development fund

    For payment to the Asian Development Bank's Asian Development Fund 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $99,233,000, to remain available 
until expended.

              contribution to the african development bank

    For payment to the African Development Bank by the Secretary of the 
Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of the 
increase in capital stock, $32,418,000, to remain available until 
expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The United States Governor of the African Development Bank may 
subscribe without fiscal year limitation to the callable capital 
portion of the United States share of such capital stock in an amount 
not to exceed $507,860,808.

              contribution to the african development fund

    For payment to the African Development Fund by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, $175,668,000, to remain available until expended.

  contribution to the international fund for agricultural development

    For payment to the International Fund for Agricultural Development 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, $30,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

              global agriculture and food security program

    For payment to the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program by 
the Secretary of the Treasury, $23,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

          contribution to the north american development bank

    For payment to the North American Development Bank by the Secretary 
of the Treasury for the United States share of the paid-in portion of 
the increase in capital stock, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

              limitation on callable capital subscriptions

    The Secretary of the Treasury may subscribe without fiscal year 
limitation to the callable capital portion of the United States share 
of such capital stock in an amount not to exceed $255,000,000.

                                TITLE VI

                    EXPORT AND INVESTMENT ASSISTANCE

                Export-Import Bank of the United States

                           inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $6,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.

                            program account

    The Export-Import Bank (the Bank) of the United States is 
authorized to make such expenditures within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to such corporation, and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations, as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program for the current fiscal year for such corporation: Provided, 
That none of the funds available during the current fiscal year may be 
used to make expenditures, contracts, or commitments for the export of 
nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology to any country, other than a 
nuclear-weapon state as defined in Article IX of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons eligible to receive economic or 
military assistance under this Act, that has detonated a nuclear 
explosive after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                        administrative expenses

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan and insurance programs, including hire of passenger motor vehicles 
and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, and not to exceed $30,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses for members of the Board of Directors, not to 
exceed $106,250,000: Provided, That the Export-Import Bank (the Bank) 
may accept, and use, payment or services provided by transaction 
participants for legal, financial, or technical services in connection 
with any transaction for which an application for a loan, guarantee or 
insurance commitment has been made: Provided further, That the Bank 
shall charge fees for necessary expenses (including special services 
performed on a contract or fee basis, but not including other personal 
services) in connection with the collection of moneys owed the Bank, 
repossession or sale of pledged collateral or other assets acquired by 
the Bank in satisfaction of moneys owed the Bank, or the investigation 
or appraisal of any property, or the evaluation of the legal, 
financial, or technical aspects of any transaction for which an 
application for a loan, guarantee or insurance commitment has been 
made, or systems infrastructure directly supporting transactions: 
Provided further, That in addition to other funds appropriated for 
administrative expenses, such fees shall be credited to this account 
for such purposes, to remain available until expended.

                           receipts collected

    Receipts collected pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, 
as amended, and the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, as amended, in 
an amount not to exceed the amount appropriated herein, shall be 
credited as offsetting collections to this account: Provided, That the 
sums herein appropriated from the General Fund shall be reduced on a 
dollar-for-dollar basis by such offsetting collections so as to result 
in a final fiscal year appropriation from the General Fund estimated at 
$0: Provided further, That amounts collected in fiscal year 2017 in 
excess of obligations, up to $10,000,000 shall become available on 
September 1, 2017, and shall remain available until September 30, 2020.

                Overseas Private Investment Corporation

                           noncredit account

    The Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to make, 
without regard to fiscal year limitations, as provided by section 9104 
of title 31, United States Code, such expenditures and commitments 
within the limits of funds available to it and in accordance with law 
as may be necessary: Provided, That the amount available for 
administrative expenses to carry out the credit and insurance programs 
(including an amount for official reception and representation expenses 
which shall not exceed $35,000) shall not exceed $62,787,000: Provided 
further, That project-specific transaction costs, including direct and 
indirect costs incurred in claims settlements, and other direct costs 
associated with services provided to specific investors or potential 
investors pursuant to section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, shall not be considered administrative expenses for the purposes 
of this heading.

                            program account

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, $20,000,000, as 
authorized by section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, to be 
derived by transfer from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
Noncredit Account: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of 
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That such sums 
shall be available for direct loan obligations and loan guaranty 
commitments incurred or made during fiscal years 2017, 2018, and 2019: 
Provided further, That funds so obligated in fiscal year 2017 remain 
available for disbursement through 2025; funds obligated in fiscal year 
2018 remain available for disbursement through 2026; and funds 
obligated in fiscal year 2019 remain available for disbursement through 
2027: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation is authorized to 
undertake any program authorized by title IV of chapter 2 of part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 in Iraq: Provided further, That 
funds made available pursuant to the authority of the previous proviso 
shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    In addition, such sums as may be necessary for administrative 
expenses to carry out the credit program may be derived from amounts 
available for administrative expenses to carry out the credit and 
insurance programs in the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
Noncredit Account and merged with said account.

                      trade and development agency

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 661 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $65,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018: Provided, That of the amounts made available 
under this heading, up to $2,500,000 may be made available to provide 
comprehensive procurement advice to foreign governments to support 
local procurements funded by the United States Agency for International 
Development, the Millennium Challenge Corporation, and the Department 
of State: Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this 
heading, not more than $5,000 may be available for representation and 
entertainment expenses.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      allowances and differentials

    Sec. 7001.  Funds appropriated under title I of this Act shall be 
available, except as otherwise provided, for allowances and 
differentials as authorized by subchapter 59 of title 5, United States 
Code; for services as authorized by section 3109 of such title and for 
hire of passenger transportation pursuant to section 1343(b) of title 
31, United States Code.

                      unobligated balances report

    Sec. 7002.  Any department or agency of the United States 
Government to which funds are appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations a 
quarterly accounting of cumulative unobligated balances and obligated, 
but unexpended, balances by program, project, and activity, and 
Treasury Account Fund Symbol of all funds received by such department 
or agency in fiscal year 2017 or any previous fiscal year, 
disaggregated by fiscal year: Provided, That the report required by 
this section shall be submitted not later than 30 days after the end of 
each fiscal quarter and should specify by account the amount of funds 
obligated pursuant to bilateral agreements which have not been further 
sub-obligated.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 7003.  The expenditure of any appropriation under title I of 
this Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
pursuant to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of 
public record and available for public inspection, except where 
otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing Executive 
Order issued pursuant to existing law.

                         diplomatic facilities

    Sec. 7004. (a) Capital Security Cost Sharing.--Of funds provided 
under title I of this Act, except as provided in subsection (b), a 
project to construct a diplomatic facility of the United States may not 
include office space or other accommodations for an employee of a 
Federal agency or department to the extent that the Secretary of State 
determines that such department or agency has not provided to the 
Department of State the full amount of funding required by subsection 
(e) of section 604 of the Secure Embassy Construction and 
Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(7) 
of Public Law 106-113 and contained in appendix G of that Act; 113 
Stat. 1501A-453), as amended by section 629 of the Departments of 
Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2005.
    (b) Exception.--Notwithstanding the prohibition in subsection (a), 
a project to construct a diplomatic facility of the United States may 
include office space or other accommodations for members of the United 
States Marine Corps.
    (c) New Diplomatic Facilities.--For the purposes of calculating the 
fiscal year 2017 costs of providing new United States diplomatic 
facilities in accordance with section 604(e) of the Secure Embassy 
Construction and Counterterrorism Act of 1999 (22 U.S.C. 4865 note), 
the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, shall determine the annual program level and 
agency shares in a manner that is proportional to the Department of 
State's contribution for this purpose.
    (d) Consultation and Notification Requirements.--Funds appropriated 
by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs, which may be made 
available for the acquisition of property or award of construction 
contracts for overseas diplomatic facilities during fiscal year 2017, 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, 
That notifications pursuant to this subsection shall include the 
information enumerated under the heading ``Embassy Security, 
Construction, and Maintenance'' in the report accompanying this Act.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated under the heading 
        ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' in this Act 
        and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
        State, foreign operations, and related programs, made available 
        through Federal agency Capital Security Cost Sharing 
        contributions and reimbursements, or generated from the 
        proceeds of real property sales, other than from real property 
        sales located in London, United Kingdom, may be made available 
        for site acquisition and mitigation, planning, design, or 
        construction of the New London Embassy: Provided, That the 
        reporting requirement contained in section 7004(f)(2) of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2012 (division I of Public Law 112-74) 
        shall remain in effect during fiscal year 2017.
            (2) Within 45 days of enactment of this Act and every 4 
        months thereafter until September 30, 2017, the Secretary of 
        State shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations a report 
        on the new Mexico City Embassy and Beirut Embassy projects: 
        Provided, That such report shall include, for each of the 
        projects--
                    (A) a detailed breakout of the project factors that 
                formed the basis of the initial cost estimate used to 
                justify such project to the Committees on 
                Appropriations, as described under the heading 
                ``Embassy Security Construction and Maintenance'' in 
                the report accompanying this Act;
                    (B) a comparison of the current project factors as 
                compared to the project factors submitted pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) of this subsection, and an explanation 
                of any changes; and
                    (C) the impact of currency exchange rate 
                fluctuations on project costs.
    (f) Interim and Temporary Facilities Abroad.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Embassy Security, Construction, and Maintenance'' may be made 
        available to address security vulnerabilities at interim and 
        temporary facilities abroad, including physical security 
        upgrades and local guard staffing, except that the amount of 
        funds made available for such purposes from this Act and prior 
        Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs shall be a minimum of 
        $25,000,000: Provided, That the uses of such funds should be 
        the responsibility of the Assistant Secretary of State for the 
        Bureau of Diplomatic Security and Foreign Missions, in 
        consultation with the Director of the Bureau of Overseas 
        Buildings Operations: Provided further, That such funds shall 
        be subject to prior consultation with the Committees on 
        Appropriations.
            (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
        opening, closure, or any significant modification to an interim 
        or temporary diplomatic facility shall be subject to prior 
        consultation with the appropriate congressional committees and 
        the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
        Appropriations, except that such consultation and notification 
        may be waived if there is a security risk to personnel.
            (3) Not later than 60 days after enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
        Appropriations on any changes made to the standard operating 
        procedures and best practices associated with the delivery, 
        construction and protection of temporary structures in high 
        threat and conflict environments subsequent to completion of 
        the documentation requirement of section 7004(f)(3) of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 114-113).
    (g) Transfer Authority.--Funds appropriated under the heading 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', including for Worldwide Security 
Protection, and under the heading ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
Maintenance'' in titles I and VIII of this Act may be transferred to, 
and merged with, funds appropriated by such titles under such headings 
if the Secretary of State determines and reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations that to do so is necessary to implement the 
recommendations of the Benghazi Accountability Review Board, or to 
prevent or respond to security situations and requirements, following 
consultation with, and subject to the regular notification procedures 
of, such Committees: Provided, That such transfer authority is in 
addition to any transfer authority otherwise available under any other 
provision of law.

                           personnel actions

    Sec. 7005.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded 
under title I of this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in 
response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed 
within the total budgetary resources available under title I to such 
department or agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this section 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 7015 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         local guard contracts

    Sec. 7006.  In evaluating proposals for local guard contracts, the 
Secretary of State shall award contracts in accordance with section 136 
of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 
(22 U.S.C. 4864), except that the Secretary may grant authorization to 
award such contracts on the basis of best value as determined by a 
cost-technical tradeoff analysis (as described in Federal Acquisition 
Regulation part 15.101), notwithstanding subsection (c)(3) of such 
section: Provided, That the authority in this section shall apply to 
any options for renewal that may be exercised under such contracts that 
are awarded during the current fiscal year: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall notify the appropriate congressional committees at 
least 15 days prior to making an award pursuant to this section for a 
local guard and protective service contract for a United States 
diplomatic facility not deemed ``high-risk, high-threat''.

        prohibition against direct funding for certain countries

    Sec. 7007.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance or reparations 
for the governments of Cuba, North Korea, Iran, or Syria: Provided, 
That for purposes of this section, the prohibition on obligations or 
expenditures shall include direct loans, credits, insurance, and 
guarantees of the Export-Import Bank or its agents.

                              coups d'etat

    Sec. 7008.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be 
obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance to the 
government of any country whose duly elected head of government is 
deposed by military coup d'etat or decree or, after the date of 
enactment of this Act, a coup d'etat or decree in which the military 
plays a decisive role: Provided, That assistance may be resumed to such 
government if the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
appropriate congressional committees that subsequent to the termination 
of assistance a democratically elected government has taken office: 
Provided further, That the provisions of this section shall not apply 
to assistance to promote democratic elections or public participation 
in democratic processes: Provided further, That funds made available 
pursuant to the previous provisos shall be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 7009. (a) Department of State and Broadcasting Board of 
Governors.--
            (1) Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
        available for the current fiscal year for the Department of 
        State under title I of this Act may be transferred between, and 
        merged with, such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
        except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased 
        by more than 10 percent by any such transfers, and no such 
        transfer may be made to increase the appropriation under the 
        heading ``Representation Expenses''.
            (2) Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
        available for the current fiscal year for the Broadcasting 
        Board of Governors under title I of this Act may be transferred 
        between, and merged with, such appropriations, but no such 
        appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall 
        be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers.
            (3) Any transfer pursuant to this subsection shall be 
        treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 7015 of this 
        Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
        except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
        section.
    (b) Title VI Transfer Authorities.--Not to exceed 5 percent of any 
appropriation other than for administrative expenses made available for 
fiscal year 2017, for programs under title VI of this Act may be 
transferred between such appropriations for use for any of the 
purposes, programs, and activities for which the funds in such 
receiving account may be used, but no such appropriation, except as 
otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 25 
percent by any such transfer: Provided, That the exercise of such 
authority shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of 
the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Limitation on Transfers Between Agencies.--
            (1) None of the funds made available under titles II 
        through V of this Act may be transferred to any department, 
        agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government, 
        except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer authority 
        provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
            (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in addition to transfers 
        made by, or authorized elsewhere in, this Act, funds 
        appropriated by this Act to carry out the purposes of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be allocated or transferred 
        to agencies of the United States Government pursuant to the 
        provisions of sections 109, 610, and 632 of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961.
            (3) Any agreement entered into by the United States Agency 
        for International Development (USAID) or the Department of 
        State with any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
        United States Government pursuant to section 632(b) of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 valued in excess of $1,000,000 
        and any agreement made pursuant to section 632(a) of such Act, 
        with funds appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs under the headings ``Global Health 
        Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
        Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' 
        shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That the requirement in 
        the previous sentence shall not apply to agreements entered 
        into between USAID and the Department of State.
    (d) Transfers Between Accounts.--None of the funds made available 
under titles II through V of this Act may be obligated under an 
appropriation account to which such funds were not appropriated, except 
for transfers specifically provided for in this Act, unless the 
President, not less than 5 days prior to the exercise of any authority 
contained in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to transfer funds, 
consults with and provides a written policy justification to the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (e) Audit of Inter-agency Transfers.--Any agreement for the 
transfer or allocation of funds appropriated by this Act, or prior 
Acts, entered into between the Department of State or USAID and another 
agency of the United States Government under the authority of section 
632(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or any comparable 
provision of law, shall expressly provide that the Inspector General 
(IG) for the agency receiving the transfer or allocation of such funds, 
or other entity with audit responsibility if the receiving agency does 
not have an IG, shall perform periodic program and financial audits of 
the use of such funds and report to the Department of State or USAID, 
as appropriate, upon completion of such audits: Provided, That such 
audits shall be transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations by the 
Department of State or USAID, as appropriate: Provided further, That 
funds transferred under such authority may be made available for the 
cost of such audits.
    (f) Report.--Not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator shall each submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing all transfers to 
another agency of the United States Government made pursuant to 
sections 632(a) and 632(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 with 
funds provided in the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 
114-113) as of the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, That such 
reports shall include a list of each transfer made pursuant to such 
sections with the respective funding level, appropriation account, and 
the receiving agency.

                   prohibition on first-class travel

    Sec. 7010.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for first-class travel by employees of agencies funded by this Act 
in contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, 
Code of Federal Regulations.

                         availability of funds

    Sec. 7011. (a) Availability.--No part of any appropriation 
contained in this Act shall remain available for obligation after the 
expiration of the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided in 
this Act.
    (b) Authority.--Funds appropriated for the purposes of chapters 1 
and 8 of part I, section 661, chapters 4, 5, 6, 8, and 9 of part II of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, section 23 of the Arms Export 
Control Act, and funds provided under the headings ``Development Credit 
Authority'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' 
shall remain available for an additional 4 years from the date on which 
the availability of such funds would otherwise have expired, if such 
funds are initially obligated before the expiration of their respective 
periods of availability contained in this Act: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any funds made 
available for the purposes of chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part 
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which are allocated or 
obligated for cash disbursements in order to address balance of 
payments or economic policy reform objectives, shall remain available 
for an additional 4 years from the date on which the availability of 
such funds would otherwise have expired, if such funds are initially 
allocated or obligated before the expiration of their respective 
periods of availability contained in this Act: Provided further, That 
the Secretary of State shall provide a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations not later than October 30, 2017, detailing by account 
and source year, the use of this authority during the previous fiscal 
year.
    (c) Limitation.--The authority in subsection (b) shall not apply 
unless the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the Committees 
on Appropriations that the Department of State has implemented--
            (1) the recommendations of the Foreign Assistance Data 
        Review, including--
                    (A) the development of a standard foreign 
                assistance management business process;
                    (B) identification of changes to existing systems 
                and new system requirements by bureau to meet the new 
                business process; and
                    (C) development of an integrated system solution, 
                including standards and governance, to meet all 
                requirements of the new foreign assistance business 
                process; and
            (2) the recommendations contained in the Office of 
        Inspector General report entitled, ``Department Financial 
        Systems Are Insufficient to Track and Report on Foreign 
        Assistance Funds'', including--
                    (A) the development of a list of requirements 
                related to tracking and reporting foreign assistance 
                funding by program, project, country, region, and 
                purpose (sector); and
                    (B) the development and implementation of a 
                comprehensive plan with target completion dates to 
                address foreign assistance funding tracking and 
                reporting requirements.

            limitation on assistance to countries in default

    Sec. 7012.  No part of any appropriation provided under titles III 
through VI in this Act shall be used to furnish assistance to the 
government of any country which is in default during a period in excess 
of 1 calendar year in payment to the United States of principal or 
interest on any loan made to the government of such country by the 
United States pursuant to a program for which funds are appropriated 
under this Act unless the President determines, following consultations 
with the Committees on Appropriations, that assistance for such country 
is in the national interest of the United States.

          prohibition on taxation of united states assistance

    Sec. 7013. (a) Prohibition on Taxation.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be made 
available to provide assistance for a foreign country under a new 
bilateral agreement governing the terms and conditions under which such 
assistance is to be provided unless such agreement includes a provision 
stating that assistance provided by the United States shall be exempt 
from taxation, or reimbursed, by the foreign government, and the 
Secretary of State shall expeditiously seek to negotiate amendments to 
existing bilateral agreements, as necessary, to conform with this 
requirement.
    (b) Reimbursement of Foreign Taxes.--An amount equivalent to 200 
percent of the total taxes assessed during fiscal year 2017 on funds 
appropriated by this Act by a foreign government or entity against 
United States assistance programs for which funds are appropriated by 
this Act, either directly or through grantees, contractors, and 
subcontractors shall be withheld from obligation from funds 
appropriated for assistance for fiscal year 2018 and allocated for the 
central government of such country and for the West Bank and Gaza 
program to the extent that the Secretary of State certifies and reports 
in writing to the Committees on Appropriations, not later than 
September 30, 2018, that such taxes have not been reimbursed to the 
Government of the United States.
    (c) De Minimis Exception.--Foreign taxes of a de minimis nature 
shall not be subject to the provisions of subsection (b).
    (d) Reprogramming of Funds.--Funds withheld from obligation for 
each country or entity pursuant to subsection (b) shall be reprogrammed 
for assistance for countries which do not assess taxes on United States 
assistance or which have an effective arrangement that is providing 
substantial reimbursement of such taxes, and that can reasonably 
accommodate such assistance in a programmatically responsible manner.
    (e) Determinations.--
            (1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any 
        country or entity if the Secretary of State reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that--
                    (A) such country or entity does not assess taxes on 
                United States assistance or has an effective 
                arrangement that is providing substantial reimbursement 
                of such taxes; or
                    (B) the foreign policy interests of the United 
                States outweigh the purpose of this section to ensure 
                that United States assistance is not subject to 
                taxation.
            (2) The Secretary of State shall consult with the 
        Committees on Appropriations at least 15 days prior to 
        exercising the authority of this subsection with regard to any 
        country or entity.
    (f) Implementation.--The Secretary of State shall issue rules, 
regulations, or policy guidance, as appropriate, to implement the 
prohibition against the taxation of assistance contained in this 
section.
    (g) Definitions.--As used in this section--
            (1) the term ``bilateral agreement'' refers to a framework 
        bilateral agreement between the Government of the United States 
        and the government of the country receiving assistance that 
        describes the privileges and immunities applicable to United 
        States foreign assistance for such country generally, or an 
        individual agreement between the Government of the United 
        States and such government that describes, among other things, 
        the treatment for tax purposes that will be accorded the United 
        States assistance provided under that agreement; and
            (2) the term ``taxes and taxation'' shall include value 
        added taxes and customs duties but shall not include individual 
        income taxes assessed to local staff.
    (h) Report.--The Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads 
of other relevant departments or agencies, shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations, not later than 90 days after the 
enactment of this Act, detailing steps taken by such departments or 
agencies to comply with the requirements of this section.

                         reservations of funds

    Sec. 7014. (a) Reprogramming.--Funds appropriated under titles III 
through VI of this Act which are specifically designated may be 
reprogrammed for other programs within the same account notwithstanding 
the designation if compliance with the designation is made impossible 
by operation of any provision of this or any other Act: Provided, That 
any such reprogramming shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: Provided further, That 
assistance that is reprogrammed pursuant to this subsection shall be 
made available under the same terms and conditions as originally 
provided.
    (b) Extension of Availability.--In addition to the authority 
contained in subsection (a), the original period of availability of 
funds appropriated by this Act and administered by the Department of 
State or the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) 
that are specifically designated for particular programs or activities 
by this or any other Act may be extended for an additional fiscal year 
if the Secretary of State or the USAID Administrator, as appropriate, 
determines and reports promptly to the Committees on Appropriations 
that the termination of assistance to a country or a significant change 
in circumstances makes it unlikely that such designated funds can be 
obligated during the original period of availability: Provided, That 
such designated funds that continue to be available for an additional 
fiscal year shall be obligated only for the purpose of such 
designation.
    (c) Other Acts.--Ceilings and specifically designated funding 
levels contained in this Act shall not be applicable to funds or 
authorities appropriated or otherwise made available by any subsequent 
Act unless such Act specifically so directs: Provided, That 
specifically designated funding levels or minimum funding requirements 
contained in any other Act shall not be applicable to funds 
appropriated by this Act.

                       notification requirements

    Sec. 7015. (a) Notification of Changes in Programs, Projects, and 
Activities.--None of the funds made available in titles I and II of 
this Act, or in prior appropriations Acts to the agencies and 
departments funded by this Act that remain available for obligation in 
fiscal year 2017, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the 
United States derived by the collection of fees or of currency reflows 
or other offsetting collections, or made available by transfer, to the 
agencies and departments funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation to--
            (1) create new programs;
            (2) eliminate a program, project, or activity;
            (3) close, suspend, open, or reopen a mission or post;
            (4) create, close, reorganize, or rename bureaus, centers, 
        or offices; or
            (5) contract out or privatize any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless previously justified to the Committees on Appropriations or such 
Committees are notified 15 days in advance of such obligation.
    (b) Notification of Reprogramming of Funds.--None of the funds 
provided under titles I and II of this Act, or provided under previous 
appropriations Acts to the agency or department funded under titles I 
and II of this Act that remain available for obligation in fiscal year 
2017, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agency or 
department funded under title I of this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects through 
a reprogramming of funds in excess of $1,000,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, that--
            (1) augments or changes existing programs, projects, or 
        activities;
            (2) relocates an existing office or employees;
            (3) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (4) results from any general savings, including savings 
        from a reduction in personnel, which would result in a change 
        in existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by 
        Congress;
unless the Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance 
of such reprogramming of funds.
    (c) Notification Requirement.--None of the funds made available by 
this Act under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', ``Development 
Assistance'', ``Trade and Development Agency'', ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Economic Support Fund'', 
``Democracy Fund'', ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
Asia'', ``Peacekeeping Operations'', ``Nonproliferation, Anti-
terrorism, Demining and Related Programs'', ``Millennium Challenge 
Corporation'', ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', ``International 
Military Education and Training'', and ``Peace Corps'', shall be 
available for obligation for activities, programs, projects, type of 
materiel assistance, countries, or other operations not justified or in 
excess of the amount justified to the Committees on Appropriations for 
obligation under any of these specific headings unless the Committees 
on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance: Provided, That the 
President shall not enter into any commitment of funds appropriated for 
the purposes of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act for the 
provision of major defense equipment, other than conventional 
ammunition, or other major defense items defined to be aircraft, ships, 
missiles, or combat vehicles, not previously justified to Congress or 
20 percent in excess of the quantities justified to Congress unless the 
Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in advance of such 
commitment: Provided further, That requirements of this subsection or 
any similar provision of this or any other Act shall not apply to any 
reprogramming for an activity, program, or project for which funds are 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act of less than 10 
percent of the amount previously justified to Congress for obligation 
for such activity, program, or project for the current fiscal year: 
Provided further, That any notification submitted pursuant to 
subsection (g) of this section shall include information (if known on 
the date of transmittal of such notification) on the use of 
notwithstanding authority: Provided further, That if subsequent to the 
notification of assistance it becomes necessary to rely on 
notwithstanding authority, the Committees on Appropriations should be 
informed at the earliest opportunity and to the extent practicable.
    (d) Notification of Transfer of Funds.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, with the exception of funds transferred to, and 
merged with, funds appropriated under title I of this Act, funds 
transferred by the Department of Defense to the Department of State and 
the United States Agency for International Development for assistance 
for foreign countries and international organizations, and funds made 
available for programs previously authorized under section 1206 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 
109-163) or section 2282 of title 10, United States Code, shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (e) Waiver.--The requirements of this section or any similar 
provision of this Act or any other Act, including any prior Act 
requiring notification in accordance with the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, may be waived if 
failure to do so would pose a substantial risk to human health or 
welfare: Provided, That in case of any such waiver, notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations shall be provided as early as practicable, 
but in no event later than 3 days after taking the action to which such 
notification requirement was applicable, in the context of the 
circumstances necessitating such waiver: Provided further, That any 
notification provided pursuant to such a waiver shall contain an 
explanation of the emergency circumstances.
    (f) Trust Funds.--Funds appropriated or otherwise made available in 
title III of this Act and prior Acts making funds available for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs that are 
made available for a trust fund held by an international financial 
institution as defined by section 7034(o)(3) of this Act shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided, That such notification shall include the 
information specified under this section in the report accompanying 
this Act.
    (g) Country Notification Requirements.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be obligated 
or expended for assistance for Afghanistan, Bolivia, Burma, Cambodia, 
Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti, 
Honduras, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, 
Somalia, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, 
Yemen, and Zimbabwe except as provided through the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (h) Withholding of Funds.--Funds appropriated by this Act under 
titles III and IV that are withheld from obligation or otherwise not 
programmed as a result of application of a provision of law in this or 
any other Act shall, if reprogrammed, be subject to the regular 
notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.

                notification on excess defense equipment

    Sec. 7016.  Prior to providing excess Department of Defense 
articles in accordance with section 516(a) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961, the Department of Defense shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations to the same extent and under the same conditions as 
other committees pursuant to subsection (f) of that section: Provided, 
That before issuing a letter of offer to sell excess defense articles 
under the Arms Export Control Act, the Department of Defense shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations in accordance with the regular 
notification procedures of such Committees if such defense articles are 
significant military equipment (as defined in section 47(9) of the Arms 
Export Control Act) or are valued (in terms of original acquisition 
cost) at $7,000,000 or more, or if notification is required elsewhere 
in this Act for the use of appropriated funds for specific countries 
that would receive such excess defense articles: Provided further, That 
such Committees shall also be informed of the original acquisition cost 
of such defense articles.

limitation on availability of funds for international organizations and 
                                programs

    Sec. 7017.  Subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations, funds appropriated under titles I and III 
through V of this Act, which are returned or not made available for 
organizations and programs because of the implementation of section 
307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or section 7048(a) of this 
Act, shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 2018: 
Provided, That the requirement to withhold funds for programs in Burma 
under section 307(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not 
apply to funds appropriated by this Act.

   prohibition on funding for abortions and involuntary sterilization

    Sec. 7018.  None of the funds made available to carry out part I of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for 
the performance of abortions as a method of family planning or to 
motivate or coerce any person to practice abortions. None of the funds 
made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as amended, may be used to pay for the performance of involuntary 
sterilization as a method of family planning or to coerce or provide 
any financial incentive to any person to undergo sterilizations. None 
of the funds made available to carry out part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be used to pay for any 
biomedical research which relates in whole or in part, to methods of, 
or the performance of, abortions or involuntary sterilization as a 
means of family planning. None of the funds made available to carry out 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, may be 
obligated or expended for any country or organization if the President 
certifies that the use of these funds by any such country or 
organization would violate any of the above provisions related to 
abortions and involuntary sterilizations.

                              allocations

    Sec. 7019. (a) Allocation Tables.--Subject to subsection (b), funds 
appropriated by this Act under titles III through V shall be made 
available in the amounts specifically designated in the respective 
tables included in the report accompanying this Act: Provided, That 
such designated amounts for foreign countries and international 
organizations shall serve as the amounts for such countries and 
international organizations transmitted to the Congress in the report 
required by section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA).
    (b) Authorized Deviations.--Unless otherwise provided for by this 
Act, the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, as applicable, may only deviate 
up to 5 percent from the amounts specifically designated in the 
respective tables included in the report accompanying this Act: 
Provided, That such percentage may be exceeded only to respond to 
significant, exigent, or unforeseen events, or to address other 
exceptional circumstances directly related to the national interest: 
Provided further, That deviations pursuant to the previous proviso 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Limitation.--For specifically designated amounts that are 
included, pursuant to subsection (a), in the report required by section 
653(a) of the FAA, no deviations authorized by subsection (b) may take 
place until submission of such report.

               representation and entertainment expenses

    Sec. 7020. (a) Uses of Funds.--Each Federal department, agency, or 
entity funded in titles I or II of this Act, and the Department of the 
Treasury and independent agencies funded in titles III or VI of this 
Act, shall take steps to ensure that domestic and overseas 
representation and entertainment expenses further official agency 
business and United States foreign policy interests--
            (1) are primarily for fostering relations outside of the 
        Executive Branch;
            (2) are principally for meals and events of a protocol 
        nature;
            (3) are not for employee-only events; and
            (4) do not include activities that are substantially of a 
        recreational character.
    (b) Limitations.--None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act under the headings ``International Military 
Education and Training'' or ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for 
Informational Program activities or under the headings ``Global Health 
Programs'', ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', and 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' may be obligated or 
expended to pay for--
            (1) alcoholic beverages; or
            (2) entertainment expenses for activities that are 
        substantially of a recreational character, including but not 
        limited to entrance fees at sporting events, theatrical and 
        musical productions, and amusement parks.

   prohibition on assistance to governments supporting international 
                               terrorism

    Sec. 7021. (a) Lethal Military Equipment Exports.--
            (1) Prohibition.--None of the funds appropriated or 
        otherwise made available by titles III through VI of this Act 
        may be made available to any foreign government which provides 
        lethal military equipment to a country the government of which 
        the Secretary of State has determined supports international 
        terrorism for purposes of section 6(j) of the Export 
        Administration Act of 1979 as continued in effect pursuant to 
        the International Emergency Economic Powers Act: Provided, That 
        the prohibition under this section with respect to a foreign 
        government shall terminate 12 months after that government 
        ceases to provide such military equipment: Provided further, 
        That this section applies with respect to lethal military 
        equipment provided under a contract entered into after October 
        1, 1997.
            (2) Determination.--Assistance restricted by paragraph (1) 
        or any other similar provision of law, may be furnished if the 
        President determines that to do so is important to the national 
        interests of the United States.
            (3) Report.--Whenever the President makes a determination 
        pursuant to paragraph (2), the President shall submit to the 
        Committees on Appropriations a report with respect to the 
        furnishing of such assistance, including a detailed explanation 
        of the assistance to be provided, the estimated dollar amount 
        of such assistance, and an explanation of how the assistance 
        furthers United States national interests.
    (b) Bilateral Assistance.--
            (1) Limitations.--Funds appropriated for bilateral 
        assistance in titles III through VI of this Act and funds 
        appropriated under any such title in prior Acts making 
        appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
        and related programs, shall not be made available to any 
        foreign government which the President determines--
                    (A) grants sanctuary from prosecution to any 
                individual or group which has committed an act of 
                international terrorism;
                    (B) otherwise supports international terrorism; or
                    (C) is controlled by an organization designated as 
                a terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act.
            (2) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) to a government if the President determines that 
        national security or humanitarian reasons justify such waiver: 
        Provided, That the President shall publish each such waiver in 
        the Federal Register and, at least 15 days before the waiver 
        takes effect, shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of 
        the waiver (including the justification for the waiver) in 
        accordance with the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.

                       authorization requirements

    Sec. 7022.  Funds appropriated by this Act, except funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Trade and Development Agency'', may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
(22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and 
section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094(a)(1)).

              definition of program, project, and activity

    Sec. 7023.  For the purpose of titles II through VI of this Act 
``program, project, and activity'' shall be defined at the 
appropriations Act account level and shall include all appropriations 
and authorizations Acts funding directives, ceilings, and limitations 
with the exception that for the following accounts: ``Economic Support 
Fund'' and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'', ``program, project, 
and activity'' shall also be considered to include country, regional, 
and central program level funding within each such account; and for the 
development assistance accounts of the United States Agency for 
International Development, ``program, project, and activity'' shall 
also be considered to include central, country, regional, and program 
level funding, either as--
            (1) justified to Congress; or
            (2) allocated by the Executive Branch in accordance with a 
        report, to be provided to the Committees on Appropriations 
        within 30 days of the enactment of this Act, as required by 
        section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.

 authorities for the peace corps, inter-american foundation and united 
                 states african development foundation

    Sec. 7024.  Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions 
of this or any other Act, including provisions contained in prior Acts 
authorizing or making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs, shall not be construed to 
prohibit activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps 
Act, the Inter-American Foundation Act or the African Development 
Foundation Act: Provided, That prior to conducting activities in a 
country for which assistance is prohibited, the agency shall consult 
with the Committees on Appropriations and report to such Committees 
within 15 days of taking such action.

                commerce, trade and surplus commodities

    Sec. 7025. (a) World Markets.--None of the funds appropriated or 
made available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act for direct 
assistance and none of the funds otherwise made available to the 
Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
shall be obligated or expended to finance any loan, any assistance, or 
any other financial commitments for establishing or expanding 
production of any commodity for export by any country other than the 
United States, if the commodity is likely to be in surplus on world 
markets at the time the resulting productive capacity is expected to 
become operative and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to 
United States producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity: 
Provided, That such prohibition shall not apply to the Export-Import 
Bank if in the judgment of its Board of Directors the benefits to 
industry and employment in the United States are likely to outweigh the 
injury to United States producers of the same, similar, or competing 
commodity, and the Chairman of the Board so notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That this subsection shall not 
prohibit--
            (1) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
        from the International Development Association, is not eligible 
        for assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction 
        and Development, and does not export on a consistent basis the 
        agricultural commodity with respect to which assistance is 
        furnished; or
            (2) activities in a country the President determines is 
        recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, or 
        a complex emergency.
    (b) Exports.--None of the funds appropriated by this or any other 
Act to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 shall be available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, 
variety improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, 
conference, or training in connection with the growth or production in 
a foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export which would 
compete with a similar commodity grown or produced in the United 
States: Provided, That this subsection shall not prohibit--
            (1) activities designed to increase food security in 
        developing countries where such activities will not have a 
        significant impact on the export of agricultural commodities of 
        the United States;
            (2) research activities intended primarily to benefit 
        United States producers;
            (3) activities in a country that is eligible for assistance 
        from the International Development Association, is not eligible 
        for assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction 
        and Development, and does not export on a consistent basis the 
        agricultural commodity with respect to which assistance is 
        furnished; or
            (4) activities in a country the President determines is 
        recovering from widespread conflict, a humanitarian crisis, or 
        a complex emergency.
    (c) International Financial Institutions.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States executive directors of the 
international financial institutions, as defined in section 7034(o)(3) 
of this Act, to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose 
any assistance by such institutions, using funds appropriated or made 
available by this Act, for the production or extraction of any 
commodity or mineral for export, if it is in surplus on world markets 
and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to United States 
producers of the same, similar, or competing commodity.

                           separate accounts

    Sec. 7026. (a) Separate Accounts for Local Currencies.--
            (1) Agreements.--If assistance is furnished to the 
        government of a foreign country under chapters 1 and 10 of part 
        I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        under agreements which result in the generation of local 
        currencies of that country, the Administrator of the United 
        States Agency for International Development (USAID) shall--
                    (A) require that local currencies be deposited in a 
                separate account established by that government;
                    (B) enter into an agreement with that government 
                which sets forth--
                            (i) the amount of the local currencies to 
                        be generated; and
                            (ii) the terms and conditions under which 
                        the currencies so deposited may be utilized, 
                        consistent with this section; and
                    (C) establish by agreement with that government the 
                responsibilities of USAID and that government to 
                monitor and account for deposits into and disbursements 
                from the separate account.
            (2) Uses of local currencies.--As may be agreed upon with 
        the foreign government, local currencies deposited in a 
        separate account pursuant to subsection (a), or an equivalent 
        amount of local currencies, shall be used only--
                    (A) to carry out chapter 1 or 10 of part I or 
                chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961 (as the case may be), for such purposes as--
                            (i) project and sector assistance 
                        activities; or
                            (ii) debt and deficit financing; or
                    (B) for the administrative requirements of the 
                United States Government.
            (3) Programming accountability.--USAID shall take all 
        necessary steps to ensure that the equivalent of the local 
        currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection (a)(2)(A) from the 
        separate account established pursuant to subsection (a)(1) are 
        used for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection 
        (a)(2).
            (4) Termination of assistance programs.--Upon termination 
        of assistance to a country under chapter 1 or 10 of part I or 
        chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as 
        the case may be), any unencumbered balances of funds which 
        remain in a separate account established pursuant to subsection 
        (a) shall be disposed of for such purposes as may be agreed to 
        by the government of that country and the United States 
        Government.
            (5) Reporting requirement.--The USAID Administrator shall 
        report as part of the congressional budget justification 
        submitted to the Committees on Appropriations on the use of 
        local currencies for the administrative requirements of the 
        United States Government as authorized in subsection (a)(2)(B), 
        and such report shall include the amount of local currency (and 
        United States dollar equivalent) used or to be used for such 
        purpose in each applicable country.
    (b) Separate Accounts for Cash Transfers.--
            (1) In general.--If assistance is made available to the 
        government of a foreign country, under chapter 1 or 10 of part 
        I or chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961, as cash transfer assistance or as nonproject sector 
        assistance, that country shall be required to maintain such 
        funds in a separate account and not commingle with any other 
        funds.
            (2) Applicability of other provisions of law.--Such funds 
        may be obligated and expended notwithstanding provisions of law 
        which are inconsistent with the nature of this assistance 
        including provisions which are referenced in the Joint 
        Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference 
        accompanying House Joint Resolution 648 (House Report No. 98-
        1159).
            (3) Notification.--At least 15 days prior to obligating any 
        such cash transfer or nonproject sector assistance, the 
        President shall submit a notification through the regular 
        notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
        which shall include a detailed description of how the funds 
        proposed to be made available will be used, with a discussion 
        of the United States interests that will be served by such 
        assistance (including, as appropriate, a description of the 
        economic policy reforms that will be promoted by such 
        assistance).
            (4) Exemption.--Nonproject sector assistance funds may be 
        exempt from the requirements of paragraph (1) only through the 
        regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
        Appropriations.

                       eligibility for assistance

    Sec. 7027. (a) Assistance Through Nongovernmental Organizations.--
Restrictions contained in this or any other Act with respect to 
assistance for a country shall not be construed to restrict assistance 
in support of programs of nongovernmental organizations from funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapters 1, 10, 
11, and 12 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 and from funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance 
for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'': Provided, That before using the 
authority of this subsection to furnish assistance in support of 
programs of nongovernmental organizations, the President shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations pursuant to the regular notification 
procedures, including a description of the program to be assisted, the 
assistance to be provided, and the reasons for furnishing such 
assistance: Provided further, That nothing in this subsection shall be 
construed to alter any existing statutory prohibitions against abortion 
or involuntary sterilizations contained in this or any other Act.
    (b) Public Law 480.--During fiscal year 2017, restrictions 
contained in this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a 
country shall not be construed to restrict assistance under the Food 
for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480): Provided, That none of the funds 
appropriated to carry out title I of such Act and made available 
pursuant to this subsection may be obligated or expended except as 
provided through the regular notification procedures of the Committees 
on Appropriations.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply--
            (1) with respect to section 620A of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to countries that support international terrorism; 
        or
            (2) with respect to section 116 of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 or any comparable provision of law prohibiting 
        assistance to the government of a country that violates 
        internationally recognized human rights.

                           local competition

    Sec. 7028. (a) Requirements for Exceptions to Competition for Local 
Entities.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are made available to 
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) may only 
be made available for limited competitions through local entities if--
            (1) prior to the determination to limit competition to 
        local entities, USAID has--
                    (A) assessed the level of local capacity to 
                effectively implement, manage, and account for programs 
                included in such competition; and
                    (B) documented the written results of the 
                assessment and decisions made; and
            (2) prior to making an award after limiting competition to 
        local entities--
                    (A) each successful local entity has been 
                determined to be responsible in accordance with USAID 
                guidelines; and
                    (B) effective monitoring and evaluation systems are 
                in place to ensure that award funding is used for its 
                intended purposes; and
            (3) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed.
    (b) Reporting Requirement.--In addition to the requirements of 
subsection (a)(1), the USAID Administrator shall report to the 
appropriate congressional committees not later than 30 days after the 
end of fiscal year 2017 on all awards subject to limited or no 
competition for local entities: Provided, That such report should be 
posted on the USAID Web site: Provided further, That the requirements 
of this subsection shall only apply to awards in excess of $3,000,000 
and sole source awards to local entities in excess of $2,000,000.

                  international financial institutions

    Sec. 7029. (a) Evaluations and Report.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States executive director of each 
international financial institution to seek to require that such 
institution adopts and implements a publicly available policy, 
including the strategic use of peer reviews and external experts, to 
conduct independent, in-depth evaluations of the effectiveness of at 
least 25 percent of all loans, grants, programs, and significant 
analytical non-lending activities in advancing the institution's goals 
of reducing poverty and promoting equitable economic growth, consistent 
with relevant safeguards, to ensure that decisions to support such 
loans, grants, programs, and activities are based on accurate data and 
objective analysis: Provided, That not later than 180 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations on steps taken by the United States 
executive directors and the international financial institutions 
consistent with this subsection.
    (b) Compensation.--None of the funds appropriated under title V of 
this Act may be made as payment to any international financial 
institution while the United States executive director to such 
institution is compensated by the institution at a rate which, together 
with whatever compensation such executive director receives from the 
United States, is in excess of the rate provided for an individual 
occupying a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, or while any alternate 
United States executive director to such institution is compensated by 
the institution at a rate in excess of the rate provided for an 
individual occupying a position at level V of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (c) Human Rights.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States executive director of each international financial 
institution to seek to require that such institution conducts rigorous 
human rights due diligence and risk management, as appropriate, in 
connection with any loan, grant, policy, or strategy of such 
institution: Provided, That prior to voting on any such loan, grant, 
policy, or strategy the executive director shall consult with the 
Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department 
of State, if the executive director has reason to believe that such 
loan, grant, policy, or strategy could result in forced displacement or 
other violation of human rights.
    (d) Fraud and Corruption.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
instruct the United States executive director of each international 
financial institution to promote in loan, grant, and other financing 
agreements improvements in borrowing countries' financial management 
and judicial capacity to investigate, prosecute, and punish fraud and 
corruption.
    (e) Whistleblower Protections.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
instruct the United States executive director of each international 
financial institution to seek to require that each such institution is 
effectively implementing and enforcing policies and procedures which 
reflect best practices for the protection of whistleblowers from 
retaliation, including best practices for--
            (1) protection against retaliation for internal and lawful 
        public disclosure;
            (2) legal burdens of proof;
            (3) statutes of limitation for reporting retaliation;
            (4) access to independent adjudicative bodies, including 
        external arbitration; and
            (5) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
        retaliation.

                          debt-for-development

    Sec. 7030.  In order to enhance the continued participation of 
nongovernmental organizations in debt-for-development and debt-for-
nature exchanges, a nongovernmental organization which is a grantee or 
contractor of the United States Agency for International Development 
may place in interest bearing accounts local currencies which accrue to 
that organization as a result of economic assistance provided under 
title III of this Act and, subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, any interest earned on 
such investment shall be used for the purpose for which the assistance 
was provided to that organization.

              financial management and budget transparency

    Sec. 7031. (a) Limitation on Direct Government-to-Government 
Assistance.--
            (1) Requirements.--Funds appropriated by this Act may be 
        made available for direct government-to-government assistance 
        only if--
                    (A)(i) each implementing agency or ministry to 
                receive assistance has been assessed and is considered 
                to have the systems required to manage such assistance 
                and any identified vulnerabilities or weaknesses of 
                such agency or ministry have been addressed;
                    (ii) the recipient agency or ministry employs and 
                utilizes staff with the necessary technical, financial, 
                and management capabilities;
                    (iii) the recipient agency or ministry has adopted 
                competitive procurement policies and systems;
                    (iv) effective monitoring and evaluation systems 
                are in place to ensure that such assistance is used for 
                its intended purposes;
                    (v) no level of acceptable fraud is assumed; and
                    (vi) the government of the recipient country is 
                taking steps to publicly disclose on an annual basis 
                its national budget, to include income and 
                expenditures;
                    (B) the recipient government is in compliance with 
                the principles set forth in section 7013 of this Act;
                    (C) the recipient agency or ministry is not headed 
                or controlled by an organization designated as a 
                foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act;
                    (D) the Government of the United States and the 
                government of the recipient country have agreed, in 
                writing, on clear and achievable objectives for the use 
                of such assistance, which should be made available on a 
                cost-reimbursable basis; and
                    (E) the recipient government is taking steps to 
                protect the rights of civil society, including freedoms 
                of expression, association, and assembly.
            (2) Consultation and notification.--In addition to the 
        requirements in paragraph (1), no funds may be made available 
        for direct government-to-government assistance without prior 
        consultation with, and notification of, the Committees on 
        Appropriations: Provided, That such notification shall contain 
        an explanation of how the proposed activity meets the 
        requirements of paragraph (1): Provided further, That the 
        requirements of this paragraph shall only apply to direct 
        government-to-government assistance in excess of $10,000,000 
        and all funds available for cash transfer, budget support, and 
        cash payments to individuals.
            (3) Suspension of assistance.--The Administrator of the 
        United States Agency for International Development (USAID) or 
        the Secretary of State, as appropriate, shall suspend any 
        direct government-to-government assistance if the Administrator 
        or the Secretary has credible information of material misuse of 
        such assistance, unless the Administrator or the Secretary 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that it is in the 
        national interest of the United States to continue such 
        assistance, including a justification, or that such misuse has 
        been appropriately addressed.
            (4) Submission of information.--The Secretary of State 
        shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations, concurrent 
        with the fiscal year 2018 congressional budget justification 
        materials, amounts planned for assistance described in 
        paragraph (1) by country, proposed funding amount, source of 
        funds, and type of assistance.
            (5) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the enactment of 
        this Act and 6 months thereafter until September 30, 2017, the 
        USAID Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations a report that--
                    (A) details all assistance described in paragraph 
                (1) provided during the previous 6-month period by 
                country, funding amount, source of funds, and type of 
                such assistance; and
                    (B) the type of procurement instrument or mechanism 
                utilized and whether the assistance was provided on a 
                reimbursable basis.
            (6) Debt service payment prohibition.--None of the funds 
        made available by this Act may be used for any foreign country 
        for debt service payments owed by any country to any 
        international financial institution: Provided, That for 
        purposes of this paragraph, the term ``international financial 
        institution'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        7034(o)(3) of this Act.
    (b) National Budget and Contract Transparency.--
            (1) Minimum requirements of fiscal transparency.--The 
        Secretary of State shall continue to update and strengthen the 
        ``minimum requirements of fiscal transparency'' for each 
        government receiving assistance appropriated by this Act, as 
        identified in the report required by section 7031(b) of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public Law 113-76).
            (2) Definition.--For purposes of paragraph (1), ``minimum 
        requirements of fiscal transparency'' are requirements 
        consistent with those in subsection (a)(1), and the public 
        disclosure of national budget documentation (to include 
        receipts and expenditures by ministry) and government contracts 
        and licenses for natural resource extraction (to include 
        bidding and concession allocation practices).
            (3) Determination and report.--For each government 
        identified pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of State, 
        not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, shall make 
        or update any determination of ``significant progress'' or ``no 
        significant progress'' in meeting the minimum requirements of 
        fiscal transparency, and make such determinations publicly 
        available in an annual ``Fiscal Transparency Report'' to be 
        posted on the Department of State Web site: Provided, That the 
        Secretary shall identify the significant progress made by each 
        such government to publicly disclose national budget 
        documentation, contracts, and licenses which are additional to 
        such information disclosed in previous fiscal years, and 
        include specific recommendations of short- and long-term steps 
        such government should take to improve fiscal transparency: 
        Provided further, That the annual report shall include a 
        detailed description of how funds appropriated by this Act are 
        being used to improve fiscal transparency, and identify 
        benchmarks for measuring progress.
            (4) Assistance.--Funds appropriated under title III of this 
        Act shall be made available for programs and activities to 
        assist governments identified pursuant to paragraph (1) to 
        improve budget transparency and to support civil society 
        organizations in such countries that promote budget 
        transparency: Provided, That such sums shall be in addition to 
        funds otherwise made available for such purposes: Provided 
        further, That a description of the uses of such funds shall be 
        included in the annual ``Fiscal Transparency Report'' required 
        by paragraph (3).
    (c) Anti-Kleptocracy and Human Rights.--
            (1)(A) Ineligibility.--Officials of foreign governments and 
        their immediate family members about whom the Secretary of 
        State has credible information have been involved in 
        significant corruption, including corruption related to the 
        extraction of natural resources, or a gross violation of human 
        rights shall be ineligible for entry into the United States.
            (B) The Secretary may also publicly or privately designate 
        or identify officials of foreign governments and their 
        immediate family members about whom the Secretary has such 
        credible information without regard to whether the individual 
        has applied for a visa.
            (2) Exception.--Individuals shall not be ineligible if 
        entry into the United States would further important United 
        States law enforcement objectives or is necessary to permit the 
        United States to fulfill its obligations under the United 
        Nations Headquarters Agreement: Provided, That nothing in 
        paragraph (1) shall be construed to derogate from United States 
        Government obligations under applicable international 
        agreements.
            (3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that the waiver would 
        serve a compelling national interest or that the circumstances 
        which caused the individual to be ineligible have changed 
        sufficiently.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 6 months after enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report, 
        including a classified annex if necessary, to the Committees on 
        Appropriations and the Committees on the Judiciary describing 
        the information related to corruption or violation of human 
        rights concerning each of the individuals found ineligible in 
        the previous 12 months pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) as well as 
        the individuals who the Secretary designated or identified 
        pursuant to paragraph (1)(B), or who would be ineligible but 
        for the application of paragraph (2), a list of any waivers 
        provided under paragraph (3), and the justification for each 
        waiver.
            (5) Posting of report.--Any unclassified portion of the 
        report required under paragraph (4) shall be posted on the 
        Department of State Web site.
            (6) Clarification.--For purposes of paragraphs (1)(B), (4), 
        and (5), the records of the Department of State and of 
        diplomatic and consular offices of the United States pertaining 
        to the issuance or refusal of visas or permits to enter the 
        United States shall not be considered confidential.
    (d) Foreign Assistance Web Site.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under titles I and II, and funds made available for any independent 
agency in title III, as appropriate, shall be made available to support 
the provision of additional information on United States Government 
foreign assistance on the Department of State foreign assistance Web 
site: Provided, That all Federal agencies funded under this Act shall 
provide such information on foreign assistance, upon request, to the 
Department of State.

                           democracy programs

    Sec. 7032. (a) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not 
less than $2,308,517,000 shall be made available for democracy 
programs.
    (b) Authority.--Funds made available by this Act for democracy 
programs may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, and with regard to the National Endowment for Democracy, any 
regulation.
    (c) Definition of Democracy Programs.--For purposes of funds 
appropriated by this Act, the term ``democracy programs'' means 
programs that support good governance, credible and competitive 
elections, freedom of expression, association, assembly, and religion, 
human rights, independent media, and the rule of law, and that 
otherwise strengthen the capacity of democratic political parties, 
governments, nongovernmental organizations and institutions, and 
citizens to support the development of democratic states, and 
institutions that are responsive and accountable to citizens.
    (d) Program Prioritization.--Funds made available pursuant to this 
section that are made available for programs to strengthen government 
institutions shall be prioritized for those institutions that 
demonstrate a commitment to democracy and the rule of law, as 
determined by the Secretary of State or the Administrator of the United 
States Agency for International Development (USAID), as appropriate.
    (e) Restriction on Prior Approval.--With respect to the provision 
of assistance for democracy programs in this Act, the organizations 
implementing such assistance, the specific nature of that assistance, 
and the participants in such programs shall not be subject to the prior 
approval by the government of any foreign country: Provided, That the 
Secretary of State, in coordination with the USAID Administrator, shall 
report to the Committees on Appropriations, not later than 120 days 
after enactment of this Act, detailing steps taken by the Department of 
State and USAID to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
    (f) Program Design and Implementation.--
            (1) Continuation of current practices.--USAID shall 
        continue to implement civil society and political competition 
        and consensus building programs abroad with funds appropriated 
        by this Act in a manner that recognizes the unique benefits of 
        grants and cooperative agreements in implementing such 
        programs: Provided, That nothing in this paragraph shall be 
        construed to affect the ability of any entity, including United 
        States contractors and small businesses, from competing for 
        proposals for USAID-funded civil society and political 
        competition and consensus building programs.
            (2) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2017, the 
        Secretary of State and USAID Administrator shall each submit to 
        the Committees on Appropriations a report detailing the use of 
        contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements in the conduct of 
        democracy programs with funds made available by the Department 
        of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Act, 2016 
        (division K of Public Law 114-113), which shall include funding 
        level, account, program sector and subsector, and a brief 
        summary of purpose.
    (g) Consultation and Communication Requirements.--
            (1) Country allocations.--The Deputy Secretary for 
        Management and Resources, Department of State, shall consult 
        with the Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy and 
        Human Rights, Department of State, and the Assistant 
        Administrator for Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian 
        Assistance, USAID, on the proposed funding levels for democracy 
        programs by country in the report submitted to Congress 
        pursuant to section 653(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961.
            (2) Informing the national endowment for democracy.--The 
        Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, 
        Department of State, and the Assistant Administrator for 
        Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, USAID, shall 
        regularly inform the National Endowment for Democracy of 
        democracy programs that are planned and supported by funds made 
        available by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for 
        the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
        programs.
            (3) Report on program changes.--The Secretary of State or 
        the USAID Administrator, as appropriate, shall report to the 
        Committees on Appropriations within 30 days of a decision to 
        significantly change the objectives or the content of a 
        democracy program or to close such a program due to the 
        increasingly repressive nature of the host country government: 
        Provided, That the report shall also include a strategy for 
        continuing support for democracy promotion, if such programming 
        is feasible, and may be submitted in classified form, if 
        necessary.

                    international religious freedom

    Sec. 7033. (a) International Religious Freedom Office and Special 
Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom.--
    (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Diplomatic 
and Consular Programs'' shall be made available for the Office of the 
Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom and the Special 
Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom of Religious Minorities in the Near 
East and South Central Asia, as authorized in the Near East and South 
Central Asia Religious Freedom Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-161), and 
including for support staff, at not less than the amounts contained for 
such Office and Envoy in the table under such heading in the report 
accompanying this Act.
    (2) Of the funds appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic and 
Consular Programs'' and designated for the Office of International 
Religious Freedom, $1,000,000 shall be made available for the 
development and implementation of an international religious freedom 
curriculum in accordance with section 103 of H.R. 1150, the Frank R. 
Wolf International Religious Freedom Act, as passed by the House of 
Representatives on May 16, 2016.
    (b) Assistance.--
            (1) International religious freedom programs.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Democracy Fund'' 
        and available for the Human Rights and Democracy Fund (HRDF), 
        not less than $10,000,000 shall be made available for 
        international religious freedom programs: Provided, That the 
        Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom shall 
        consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the uses of 
        such funds.
            (2) Protection and investigation programs.--Funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
        Fund'' shall be made available for programs to protect 
        vulnerable and persecuted religious minorities: Provided, That 
        a portion of such funds shall be made available for programs to 
        investigate the persecution of such minorities by governments 
        and non-state actors and for the public dissemination of 
        information collected on such persecution, including on the 
        Department of State Web site.
            (3) Humanitarian programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the headings ``International Disaster Assistance'' and 
        ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' shall be made available 
        for humanitarian assistance for vulnerable and persecuted 
        religious minorities, including victims of genocide designated 
        by the Secretary of State and other groups that have suffered 
        crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing, to--
                    (A) accelerate the implementation of an immediate, 
                coordinated, and sustained response to provide 
                humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) enhance protection of conflict victims, 
                including those facing a dire humanitarian crisis and 
                severe persecution because of their faith or ethnicity;
                    (C) build resilience and help reestablish 
                livelihoods for displaced and persecuted persons in 
                their communities of origin; and
                    (D) improve access to secure locations for 
                obtaining humanitarian and resettlement services.
            (4) Responsibility of funds.--Funds made available by 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be the responsibility of the 
        Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom, in 
        consultation with other relevant United States Government 
        officials.
    (c) International Broadcasting.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Broadcasting Board of Governors, International 
Broadcasting Operations'' shall be made available for programs related 
to international religious freedom, including reporting on the 
condition of vulnerable and persecuted religious groups.
    (d) Atrocities Prevention.--Funds appropriated by this Act under 
the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' shall be made 
available for support of the Atrocities Prevention Board.

                           special provisions

    Sec. 7034. (a) Victims of War, Displaced Children, and Displaced 
Burmese.--Funds appropriated in titles III and VI of this Act that are 
made available for victims of war, displaced children, displaced 
Burmese, and to combat trafficking in persons and assist victims of 
such trafficking, may be made available notwithstanding any other 
provision of law.
    (b) Law Enforcement and Security.--
            (1) Child soldiers.--Funds appropriated by this Act should 
        not be used to support any military training or operations that 
        include child soldiers.
            (2) Disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration.--
        Section 7034(d) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
        and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of 
        Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect during fiscal year 
        2017 as if part of this Act.
            (3) Forensic assistance.--
                    (A) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'', not less than 
                $4,000,000 shall be made available for forensic 
                anthropology assistance related to the exhumation of 
                mass graves and the identification of victims of war 
                crimes, crimes against humanity, or genocide, of which 
                not less than $3,000,000 should be made available for 
                such assistance in Guatemala, Peru, Colombia, Iraq, 
                Syria, and Sri Lanka, which shall be administered by 
                the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, 
                and Labor, Department of State.
                    (B) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement'', not less than $8,000,000 shall be made 
                available for DNA forensic technology programs to 
                combat human trafficking in Central America and Mexico.
            (4) International prison conditions.--Section 7065 of the 
        Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
        Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) 
        shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2017 as if part of 
        this Act.
            (5) Reconstituting civilian police authority.--In providing 
        assistance with funds appropriated by this Act under section 
        660(b)(6) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, support for a 
        nation emerging from instability may be deemed to mean support 
        for regional, district, municipal, or other sub-national entity 
        emerging from instability, as well as a nation emerging from 
        instability.
            (6) Security assistance report.--Not later than 120 days 
        after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
        submit to the Committees on Appropriations a report on funds 
        obligated and expended during fiscal year 2016, by country and 
        purpose of assistance, under the headings ``Peacekeeping 
        Operations'', ``International Military Education and 
        Training'', and ``Foreign Military Financing Program''.
            (7) Modernization initiative, withholding, and reporting 
        requirement.--
                    (A) Modernization initiative.--Of the funds 
                appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Foreign 
                Military Financing Program'' for the general costs of 
                administering military assistance and sales, not less 
                than $5,000,000 shall be made available to modernize 
                sales programs authorized by Chapter 2 of the Arms 
                Export Control Act, in accordance with the requirements 
                described under the heading ``Foreign Military 
                Financing Program'' in the report accompanying this 
                Act.
                    (B) Withholding.--Of the funds made available in 
                paragraph (3) under the heading ``Diplomatic and 
                Consular Programs'' in title I of this Act and notified 
                to the Committees on Appropriations for the Office of 
                the Secretary in the operating plan required by section 
                7076 of this Act, 10 percent shall be withheld from 
                obligation until the Secretary of State reports to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that the solicitation 
                described under the heading ``Foreign Military 
                Financing Program'' in the report accompanying this Act 
                is posted.
                    (C) Quarterly report.--Not later than March 31, 
                2017, and every 90 days thereafter until September 30, 
                2017, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
                Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the Committees on 
                Appropriations a report on the status of pending sales 
                made pursuant to Chapter 2 of the Arms Export Control 
                Act in accordance with the requirements enumerated 
                under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
                Program'' in the report accompanying this Act.
    (c) Contribution.--Funds managed by the Bureau for Democracy, 
Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance, United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID), from this or any other Act, may be 
made available as a general contribution to the World Food Programme: 
Provided, That funds made available pursuant to the authority of this 
subsection shall be subject to section 7048 of this Act.
    (d) Directives and Authorities.--
            (1) Research and training.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
        under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central 
        Asia'' shall be made available to carry out the Program for 
        Research and Training on Eastern Europe and the Independent 
        States of the Former Soviet Union as authorized by the Soviet-
        Eastern European Research and Training Act of 1983 (22 U.S.C. 
        4501 et seq.).
            (2) Genocide victims memorial sites.--Funds appropriated by 
        this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance 
        for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'' may be made available as 
        contributions to establish and maintain memorial sites of 
        genocide, subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
        Committees on Appropriations.
            (3) Authority.--The USAID Administrator may use funds 
        appropriated by this Act under title III to make innovation 
        incentive awards: Provided, That each individual award may not 
        exceed $100,000: Provided further, That no more than 10 such 
        awards may be made during fiscal year 2017: Provided further, 
        That for purposes of this paragraph the term ``innovation 
        incentive award'' means the provision of funding on a 
        competitive basis that--
                    (A) encourages and rewards the development of 
                solutions for a particular, well-defined problem 
                related to the alleviation of poverty; or
                    (B) helps identify and promote a broad range of 
                ideas and practices facilitating further development of 
                an idea or practice by third parties.
    (e) Partner Vetting.--Funds appropriated by this Act or in titles I 
through IV of prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of 
State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be used by the 
Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator, as appropriate, to 
support the continued implementation of the Partner Vetting System 
(PVS) pilot program: Provided, That the Secretary of State and the 
USAID Administrator shall inform the Committees on Appropriations, at 
least 30 days prior to completion of the pilot program, on the criteria 
for evaluating such program, including for possible expansion: Provided 
further, That not later than 180 days after completion of the pilot 
program, the Secretary and USAID Administrator shall jointly submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations, in classified form if 
necessary, detailing the findings, conclusions, and any recommendations 
for expansion of such program: Provided further, That not less than 30 
days prior to the implementation of any recommendations for expanding 
the PVS pilot program the Secretary of State and USAID Administrator 
shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations and with 
representatives of agency implementing partners on the findings, 
conclusions, and recommendations in such report, as appropriate.
    (f) Contingencies.--During fiscal year 2017, the President may use 
up to $125,000,000 under the authority of section 451 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
    (g) International Child Abductions.--The Secretary of State should 
withhold funds appropriated under title III of this Act for assistance 
for the central government of any country that is not taking 
appropriate steps to comply with the Convention on the Civil Aspects of 
International Child Abductions, done at the Hague on October 25, 1980: 
Provided, That the Secretary shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations within 15 days of withholding funds under this 
subsection.
    (h) Cultural Preservation Project Determination.--None of the funds 
appropriated in titles I and III of this Act may be used for the 
preservation of religious sites unless the Secretary of State or the 
USAID Administrator, as appropriate, determines and reports to the 
Committees on Appropriations that such sites are historically, 
artistically, or culturally significant, that the purpose of the 
project is neither to advance nor to inhibit the free exercise of 
religion, and that the project is in the national interest of the 
United States.
    (i) Transfers for Extraordinary Protection.--The Secretary of State 
may transfer to, and merge with, funds under the heading ``Protection 
of Foreign Missions and Officials'' unobligated balances of expired 
funds appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs'' for fiscal year 2017, except for funds designated for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, at no later than the end of the fifth fiscal year 
after the last fiscal year for which such funds are available for the 
purposes for which appropriated: Provided, That not more than 
$50,000,000 may be transferred.
    (j) Protections and Remedies for Employees of Diplomatic Missions 
and International Organizations.--Section 7034(k) of the Department of 
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall continue in effect during 
fiscal year 2017 as if part of this Act.
    (k) Extension of Authorities.--
            (1) Incentives for critical posts.--The authority contained 
        in section 1115(d) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 
        (Public Law 111-32) shall remain in effect through September 
        30, 2017.
            (2) Foreign service officer annuitant waiver.--Section 
        824(g) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4064(g)) 
        shall be applied by substituting ``September 30, 2017'' for 
        ``October 1, 2010'' in paragraph (2).
            (3) Department of state civil service annuitant waiver.--
        Section 61(a) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 
        1956 (22 U.S.C. 2733(a)) shall be applied by substituting 
        ``September 30, 2017'' for ``October 1, 2010'' in paragraph 
        (2).
            (4) USAID civil service annuitant waiver.--Section 
        625(j)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
        2385(j)(1)) shall be applied by substituting ``September 30, 
        2017'' for ``October 1, 2010'' in subparagraph (B).
            (5) Categorical eligibility.--The Foreign Operations, 
        Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 
        (Public Law 101-167) is amended--
                    (A) in section 599D (8 U.S.C. 1157 note)--
                            (i) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``and 
                        2016'' and inserting ``2016, and 2017''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (e), by striking 
                        ``2016'' each place it appears and inserting 
                        ``2017''; and
                    (B) in section 599E (8 U.S.C. 1255 note) in 
                subsection (b)(2), by striking ``2016'' and inserting 
                ``2017''.
            (6) Inspector general annuitant waiver.--The authorities 
        provided in section 1015(b) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
        Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-212) shall remain in effect through 
        September 30, 2017.
            (7) Extension of war reserves stockpile authority.--
                    (A) Section 12001(d) of the Department of Defense 
                Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-287; 118 Stat. 
                1011) is amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting 
                ``2018''.
                    (B) Section 514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance 
                Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by 
                striking ``and 2017'' and inserting ``2017, and 2018''.
    (l) HIV/AIDS Working Capital Fund.--Funds available in the HIV/AIDS 
Working Capital Fund established pursuant to section 525(b)(1) of the 
Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-477) may be made available for 
pharmaceuticals and other products for child survival, malaria, and 
tuberculosis to the same extent as HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and other 
products, subject to the terms and conditions in such section: 
Provided, That the authority in section 525(b)(5) of the Foreign 
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2005 (Public Law 108-477) shall be exercised by the Assistant 
Administrator for Global Health, USAID, with respect to funds deposited 
for such non-HIV/AIDS pharmaceuticals and other products, and shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations: Provided further, That the Secretary of State shall 
include in the congressional budget justification an accounting of 
budgetary resources, disbursements, balances, and reimbursements 
related to such fund.
    (m) Loan Guarantees.--Funds appropriated under the headings 
``Economic Support Fund'' and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'' by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs may be 
made available for the costs, as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of loan guarantees for Jordan, 
Ukraine, Iraq, and Tunisia, which are authorized to be provided: 
Provided, That amounts made available under this subsection for the 
costs of such guarantees shall not be considered assistance for the 
purposes of provisions of law limiting assistance to a country: 
Provided further, That funds made available pursuant to this subsection 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That amounts made available pursuant to this subsection from 
prior Acts that were previously designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, are designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of such Act and shall be available only if the President subsequently 
so designates all such amounts and transmits such designations to the 
Congress.
    (n) Green Climate Fund Prohibition.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs may be made available as a contribution, grant, or any 
other payment to the Green Climate Fund.
    (o) Definitions.--
            (1) Unless otherwise defined in this Act, for purposes of 
        this Act the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        shall mean the Committees on Appropriations and Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations 
        and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Unless otherwise defined in this Act, for purposes of 
        this Act the term ``funds appropriated in this Act and prior 
        Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs'' shall mean funds that remain 
        available for obligation, and have not expired.
            (3) For the purposes of this Act ``international financial 
        institutions'' shall mean the International Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development, the International Development 
        Association, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-
        American Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the 
        Asian Development Bank, the Asian Development Fund, the Inter-
        American Investment Corporation, the North American Development 
        Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the 
        African Development Bank, the African Development Fund, and the 
        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency.
            (4) Any reference to Southern Kordofan in this or any other 
        Act making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs shall be deemed to include 
        portions of Western Kordofan that were previously part of 
        Southern Kordofan prior to the 2013 division of Southern 
        Kordofan.

                     arab league boycott of israel

    Sec. 7035.  It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Arab League boycott of Israel, and the secondary 
        boycott of American firms that have commercial ties with 
        Israel, is an impediment to peace in the region and to United 
        States investment and trade in the Middle East and North 
        Africa;
            (2) the Arab League boycott, which was regrettably 
        reinstated in 1997, should be immediately and publicly 
        terminated, and the Central Office for the Boycott of Israel 
        immediately disbanded;
            (3) all Arab League states should normalize relations with 
        their neighbor Israel;
            (4) the President and the Secretary of State should 
        continue to vigorously oppose the Arab League boycott of Israel 
        and find concrete steps to demonstrate that opposition by, for 
        example, taking into consideration the participation of any 
        recipient country in the boycott when determining to sell 
        weapons to said country; and
            (5) the President should report to Congress annually on 
        specific steps being taken by the United States to encourage 
        Arab League states to normalize their relations with Israel to 
        bring about the termination of the Arab League boycott of 
        Israel, including those to encourage allies and trading 
        partners of the United States to enact laws prohibiting 
        businesses from complying with the boycott and penalizing 
        businesses that do comply.

                         palestinian statehood

    Sec. 7036. (a) Limitation on Assistance.--None of the funds 
appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act may be provided to 
support a Palestinian state unless the Secretary of State determines 
and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that--
            (1) the governing entity of a new Palestinian state--
                    (A) has demonstrated a firm commitment to peaceful 
                co-existence with the State of Israel; and
                    (B) is taking appropriate measures to counter 
                terrorism and terrorist financing in the West Bank and 
                Gaza, including the dismantling of terrorist 
                infrastructures, and is cooperating with appropriate 
                Israeli and other appropriate security organizations; 
                and
            (2) the Palestinian Authority (or the governing entity of a 
        new Palestinian state) is working with other countries in the 
        region to vigorously pursue efforts to establish a just, 
        lasting, and comprehensive peace in the Middle East that will 
        enable Israel and an independent Palestinian state to exist 
        within the context of full and normal relationships, which 
        should include--
                    (A) termination of all claims or states of 
                belligerency;
                    (B) respect for and acknowledgment of the 
                sovereignty, territorial integrity, and political 
                independence of every state in the area through 
                measures including the establishment of demilitarized 
                zones;
                    (C) their right to live in peace within secure and 
                recognized boundaries free from threats or acts of 
                force;
                    (D) freedom of navigation through international 
                waterways in the area; and
                    (E) a framework for achieving a just settlement of 
                the refugee problem.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
governing entity should enact a constitution assuring the rule of law, 
an independent judiciary, and respect for human rights for its 
citizens, and should enact other laws and regulations assuring 
transparent and accountable governance.
    (c) Waiver.--The President may waive subsection (a) if the 
President determines that it is important to the national security 
interest of the United States to do so.
    (d) Exemption.--The restriction in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to assistance intended to help reform the Palestinian Authority and 
affiliated institutions, or the governing entity, in order to help meet 
the requirements of subsection (a), consistent with the provisions of 
section 7040 of this Act (``Limitation on Assistance for the 
Palestinian Authority'').

           restrictions concerning the palestinian authority

    Sec. 7037.  None of the funds appropriated under titles II through 
VI of this Act may be obligated or expended to create in any part of 
Jerusalem a new office of any department or agency of the United States 
Government for the purpose of conducting official United States 
Government business with the Palestinian Authority over Gaza and 
Jericho or any successor Palestinian governing entity provided for in 
the Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles: Provided, That this 
restriction shall not apply to the acquisition of additional space for 
the existing Consulate General in Jerusalem: Provided further, That 
meetings between officers and employees of the United States and 
officials of the Palestinian Authority, or any successor Palestinian 
governing entity provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration of 
Principles, for the purpose of conducting official United States 
Government business with such authority should continue to take place 
in locations other than Jerusalem: Provided further, That as has been 
true in the past, officers and employees of the United States 
Government may continue to meet in Jerusalem on other subjects with 
Palestinians (including those who now occupy positions in the 
Palestinian Authority), have social contacts, and have incidental 
discussions.

 prohibition on assistance to the palestinian broadcasting corporation

    Sec. 7038.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to provide equipment, technical 
support, consulting services, or any other form of assistance to the 
Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.

                 assistance for the west bank and gaza

    Sec. 7039. (a) Oversight.--For fiscal year 2017, 30 days prior to 
the initial obligation of funds for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza 
Program, the Secretary of State shall certify to the Committees on 
Appropriations that procedures have been established to assure the 
Comptroller General of the United States will have access to 
appropriate United States financial information in order to review the 
uses of United States assistance for the Program funded under the 
heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the West Bank and Gaza.
    (b) Vetting.--Prior to the obligation of funds appropriated by this 
Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the 
West Bank and Gaza, the Secretary of State shall take all appropriate 
steps to ensure that such assistance is not provided to or through any 
individual, private or government entity, or educational institution 
that the Secretary knows or has reason to believe advocates, plans, 
sponsors, engages in, or has engaged in, terrorist activity nor, with 
respect to private entities or educational institutions, those that 
have as a principal officer of the entity's governing board or 
governing board of trustees any individual that has been determined to 
be involved in, or advocating terrorist activity or determined to be a 
member of a designated foreign terrorist organization: Provided, That 
the Secretary of State shall, as appropriate, establish procedures 
specifying the steps to be taken in carrying out this subsection and 
shall terminate assistance to any individual, entity, or educational 
institution which the Secretary has determined to be involved in or 
advocating terrorist activity.
    (c) Prohibition.--
            (1) Recognition of acts of terrorism.--None of the funds 
        appropriated under titles III through VI of this Act for 
        assistance under the West Bank and Gaza Program may be made 
        available for the purpose of recognizing or otherwise honoring 
        individuals who commit, or have committed acts of terrorism.
            (2) Security assistance and reporting requirement.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds 
        made available by this or prior appropriations Acts, including 
        funds made available by transfer, may be made available for 
        obligation for security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza 
        until the Secretary of State reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations on the benchmarks that have been established for 
        security assistance for the West Bank and Gaza and reports on 
        the extent of Palestinian compliance with such benchmarks.
    (d) Audits by the United States Agency for International 
Development.--
            (1) The Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development shall ensure that Federal or non-
        Federal audits of all contractors and grantees, and significant 
        subcontractors and sub-grantees, under the West Bank and Gaza 
        Program, are conducted at least on an annual basis to ensure, 
        among other things, compliance with this section.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated by this Act up to $500,000 
        may be used by the Office of Inspector General of the United 
        States Agency for International Development for audits, 
        inspections, and other activities in furtherance of the 
        requirements of this subsection: Provided, That such funds are 
        in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes.
    (e) Comptroller General of the United States Audit.--Subsequent to 
the certification specified in subsection (a), the Comptroller General 
of the United States shall conduct an audit and an investigation of the 
treatment, handling, and uses of all funds for the bilateral West Bank 
and Gaza Program, including any funds provided as cash transfer 
assistance, in fiscal year 2017 under the heading ``Economic Support 
Fund'', and such audit shall address--
            (1) the extent to which such Program complies with the 
        requirements of subsections (b) and (c); and
            (2) an examination of all programs, projects, and 
        activities carried out under such Program, including both 
        obligations and expenditures.
    (f) Notification Procedures.--Funds made available in this Act for 
West Bank and Gaza shall be subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Report.--Not later than 180 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Appropriations updating the report contained in section 2106 of chapter 
2 of title II of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for 
Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, 2005 (Public Law 
109-13).

         limitation on assistance for the palestinian authority

    Sec. 7040. (a) Prohibition of Funds.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be obligated or 
expended with respect to providing funds to the Palestinian Authority.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition included in subsection (a) shall not 
apply if the President certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives, the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the 
Committees on Appropriations that waiving such prohibition is important 
to the national security interest of the United States.
    (c) Period of Application of Waiver.--Any waiver pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be effective for no more than a period of 6 months 
at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months after the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Report.--Whenever the waiver authority pursuant to subsection 
(b) is exercised, the President shall submit a report to the Committees 
on Appropriations detailing the justification for the waiver, the 
purposes for which the funds will be spent, and the accounting 
procedures in place to ensure that the funds are properly disbursed: 
Provided, That the report shall also detail the steps the Palestinian 
Authority has taken to arrest terrorists, confiscate weapons and 
dismantle the terrorist infrastructure.
    (e) Certification.--If the President exercises the waiver authority 
under subsection (b), the Secretary of State must certify and report to 
the Committees on Appropriations prior to the obligation of funds that 
the Palestinian Authority has established a single treasury account for 
all Palestinian Authority financing and all financing mechanisms flow 
through this account, no parallel financing mechanisms exist outside of 
the Palestinian Authority treasury account, and there is a single 
comprehensive civil service roster and payroll, and the Palestinian 
Authority is acting to counter incitement of violence against Israelis 
and is supporting activities aimed at promoting peace, coexistence, and 
security cooperation with Israel.
    (f) Prohibition to Hamas and the Palestine Liberation 
Organization.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated in titles III through VI 
        of this Act may be obligated for salaries of personnel of the 
        Palestinian Authority located in Gaza or may be obligated or 
        expended for assistance to Hamas or any entity effectively 
        controlled by Hamas, any power-sharing government of which 
        Hamas is a member, or that results from an agreement with 
        Hamas.
            (2) Notwithstanding the limitation of paragraph (1), 
        assistance may be provided to a power-sharing government only 
        if the President certifies and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such government, including all of its 
        ministers or such equivalent, has publicly accepted and is 
        complying with the principles contained in section 620K(b)(1) 
        (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended.
            (3) The President may exercise the authority in section 
        620K(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as added by the 
        Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-446) 
        with respect to this subsection.
            (4) Whenever the certification pursuant to paragraph (2) is 
        exercised, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
        Committees on Appropriations within 120 days of the 
        certification and every quarter thereafter on whether such 
        government, including all of its ministers or such equivalent 
        are continuing to comply with the principles contained in 
        section 620K(b)(1) (A) and (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
        1961, as amended: Provided, That the report shall also detail 
        the amount, purposes and delivery mechanisms for any assistance 
        provided pursuant to the abovementioned certification and a 
        full accounting of any direct support of such government.
            (5) None of the funds appropriated under titles III through 
        VI of this Act may be obligated for assistance for the 
        Palestine Liberation Organization.

                      middle east and north africa

    Sec. 7041. (a) Egypt.--
            (1) Certification and report.--Funds appropriated by this 
        Act that are available for assistance for Egypt may be made 
        available notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        restricting assistance for Egypt, except for this subsection, 
        and may only be made available for assistance for the 
        Government of Egypt if the Secretary of State certifies and 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that such 
        government is--
                    (A) sustaining the strategic relationship with the 
                United States; and
                    (B) meeting its obligations under the 1979 Egypt-
                Israel Peace Treaty.
            (2) Report on governance.--
                    (A) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
                Act and every 90 days thereafter until September 30, 
                2017, the Secretary of State shall report to the 
                Committees on Appropriations on steps taken by the 
                Government of Egypt to--
                            (i) advance democracy and human rights in 
                        Egypt, including to govern democratically and 
                        protect religious minorities and the rights of 
                        women;
                            (ii) implement reforms that protect 
                        freedoms of expression, association, and 
                        peaceful assembly, including the ability of 
                        civil society organizations and the media to 
                        function without interference; and
                            (iii) improve the transparency and 
                        accountability of security forces.
                    (B) The report required by subparagraph (A) may be 
                provided in classified form if necessary.
            (3) Economic support fund.--
                    (A) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', up to 
                $150,000,000 may be made available for assistance for 
                Egypt, subject to prior consultation with the 
                appropriate congressional committees and the regular 
                notification procedures of the Committees on 
                Appropriations and section 634A of the Foreign 
                Assistance Act of 1961: Provided, That such funds may 
                be made available for democracy programs and for 
                programs that support development and security in the 
                Sinai: Provided further, That such funds may not be 
                made available for cash transfer assistance or budget 
                support unless the Secretary of State certifies and 
                reports to the appropriate congressional committees 
                that the Government of Egypt is taking consistent and 
                effective steps to stabilize the economy and implement 
                market-based economic reforms.
                    (B) Withholding.--The Secretary of State shall 
                withhold from obligation funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for 
                assistance for Egypt, an amount of such funds that the 
                Secretary determines to be equivalent to that expended 
                by the United States Government for bail, and by 
                nongovernmental organizations for legal and court fees, 
                associated with democracy-related trials in Egypt until 
                the Secretary certifies and reports to the Committees 
                on Appropriations that the Government of Egypt has 
                dismissed the convictions issued by the Cairo Criminal 
                Court on June 4, 2013, in ``Public Prosecution Case No. 
                1110 for the Year 2012''.
            (4) Foreign military financing program.--Of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military 
        Financing Program'', $1,300,000,000, to remain available until 
        September 30, 2018, shall be made available for assistance for 
        Egypt which may be transferred to an interest bearing account 
        in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, following consultation 
        with the Committees on Appropriations: Provided, That not later 
        than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        State shall report to the Committees on Appropriations on the 
        impact of restructuring military assistance for Egypt: Provided 
        further, That such report shall include the requirements 
        contained under this section in the report accompanying this 
        Act.
    (b) Iran.--
            (1) Funding.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', ``Economic 
        Support Fund'', and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
        Demining and Related Programs'' shall be used by the Secretary 
        of State--
                    (A) to support the United States policy to prevent 
                Iran from achieving the capability to produce or 
                otherwise obtain a nuclear weapon;
                    (B) to support an expeditious response to any 
                violation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or 
                United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231;
                    (C) to support the implementation and enforcement 
                of sanctions against Iran for support of terrorism, 
                human rights abuses, and ballistic missile and weapons 
                proliferation; and
                    (D) for democracy programs for Iran, to be 
                administered by the Assistant Secretary for Near 
                Eastern Affairs, Department of State, in consultation 
                with the Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human 
                Rights, and Labor, Department of State.
            (2) Continuation of prohibition.--The terms and conditions 
        of paragraph (2) of section 7041(c) in division I of Public Law 
        112-74 shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2017 as if 
        part of this Act.
            (3) Reports.--
                    (A) The Secretary of State shall submit to the 
                Committees on Appropriations the semi-annual report 
                required by section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement 
                Review Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 2160e(d)(4)).
                    (B) Not later than 180 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall 
                submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
                report on the status of the implementation and 
                enforcement of bilateral United States and multilateral 
                sanctions against Iran and actions taken by the United 
                States and the international community to enforce such 
                sanctions against Iran: Provided, That the report shall 
                also include any entities involved in the development 
                of a ballistic missile by the Government of Iran after 
                October 1, 2015, including shipping and financing, and 
                note whether such entities are currently under United 
                States sanctions: Provided further, That such report 
                shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may 
                contain a classified annex if necessary.
    (c) Iraq.--
            (1) Purposes.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be made 
        available for assistance for Iraq to promote governance, 
        security, and internal and regional stability, including in 
        Kurdistan and other areas impacted by the conflict in Syria, 
        and among religious and ethnic minority populations in Iraq.
            (2) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        may be made available for construction, rehabilitation, or 
        other improvements to United States diplomatic facilities in 
        Iraq on property for which no land-use agreement has been 
        entered into by the Governments of the United States and Iraq: 
        Provided, That the restrictions in this paragraph shall not 
        apply if such funds are necessary to protect United States 
        diplomatic facilities or the security, health, and welfare of 
        United States personnel.
            (3) Kurdistan regional government.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' that are made 
                available for a loan guarantee for Iraq pursuant to 
                section 7034(m) shall, after consultation with the 
                Government of Iraq and as a condition of obligation, 
                provide that not less than 17 percent of the proceeds 
                of such financing be made available to the Kurdistan 
                Regional Government.
                    (B) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                headings ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement'' and ``Foreign Military Financing 
                Program'' that are available for assistance for Iraq 
                shall be made available to enhance the capacity of the 
                security forces of the Kurdistan Regional Government 
                and for security programs in Kurdistan to address 
                requirements arising from the violence in Syria and 
                Iraq: Provided, That the Secretary of State shall 
                consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior to 
                obligating such funds.
            (4) Iraq foreign military financing program loan 
        authority.--During fiscal year 2017, direct loans under section 
        23 of the Arms Export Control Act may be made available for 
        Iraq, gross obligations for the principal amounts of which 
        shall not exceed $2,700,000,000: Provided, That funds 
        appropriated under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' in title VIII of this Act that are designated by the 
        Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
        Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
        Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
        may be made available for the costs, as defined in section 502 
        of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of such loans, except 
        that such funds may not be derived from amounts specifically 
        designated for countries other than Iraq: Provided further, 
        That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, 
        shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
        Act of 1974, and may include the costs of selling, reducing, or 
        cancelling any amounts owed to the United States or any agency 
        of the United States by Iraq: Provided further, That the 
        Government of the United States may charge fees for such loans, 
        which shall be collected from borrowers in accordance with 
        section 502(7) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
        Provided further, That no funds made available to Iraq by this 
        Act or any other Act may be used for payment of any fees 
        associated with these loans: Provided further, That applicable 
        provisions of section 3 of the Arms Export Control Act relating 
        to restrictions on transfers, re-transfers and end-use shall 
        apply to defense articles and services purchased with such 
        loans: Provided further, That, in consultation with the 
        Government of Iraq, special emphasis shall be placed on 
        assistance to covered groups (as defined in section 
        1223(e)(2)(D) of the National Defense Authorization Act 2016 
        (Public Law 114-92)) with proceeds from the loans made 
        available pursuant to this paragraph: Provided further, That 
        with respect to the Kurdish Peshmerga, the term ``special 
        emphasis'' in the previous proviso shall mean providing not 
        less than 17 percent of the proceeds of such financing to such 
        group: Provided further, That such loans shall be repaid in not 
        more than 12 years, including a grace period of up to 1 year on 
        repayment of principal: Provided further, That funds made 
        available pursuant to this section shall be subject to prior 
        consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, 
        the Committees on Appropriations.
            (5) Basing rights agreement.--None of the funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
        used by the Government of the United States to enter into a 
        permanent basing rights agreement between the United States and 
        Iraq.
    (d) Jordan.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act under titles III 
and IV, not less than $1,275,000,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Jordan, of which not less than $375,000,000 shall be for 
budget support for the Government of Jordan.
    (e) Lebanon.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        may be made available for the Lebanese Internal Security Forces 
        (ISF) or the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) if the ISF or the LAF 
        is controlled by a foreign terrorist organization, as 
        designated pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act.
            (2) Consultation requirement.--Funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the headings ``International Narcotics Control and 
        Law Enforcement'' and ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' 
        that are available for assistance for Lebanon may be made 
        available for programs and equipment for the ISF and the LAF to 
        address security and stability requirements in areas affected 
        by the conflict in Syria, following consultation with the 
        appropriate congressional committees.
            (3) Foreign military financing program.--In addition to the 
        activities described in paragraph (2), funds appropriated by 
        this Act under the heading ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' for assistance for Lebanon may be made available only 
        to professionalize the LAF and to strengthen border security 
        and combat terrorism, including training and equipping the LAF 
        to secure Lebanon's borders, interdicting arms shipments, 
        preventing the use of Lebanon as a safe haven for terrorist 
        groups, and to implement United Nations Security Council 
        Resolution 1701: Provided, That funds may not be obligated for 
        assistance for the LAF until the Secretary of State submits to 
        the Committees on Appropriations a detailed spend plan, 
        including actions to be taken to ensure equipment provided to 
        the LAF is only used for the intended purposes, except such 
        plan may not be considered as meeting the notification 
        requirements under section 7015 of this Act or under section 
        634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and shall be 
        submitted not later than September 1, 2017: Provided further, 
        That any notification submitted pursuant to such sections shall 
        include any funds specifically intended for lethal military 
        equipment.
    (f) Libya.--
            (1) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
        may be made available for assistance for the central Government 
        of Libya unless the Secretary of State reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that such government is 
        cooperating with United States Government efforts to 
        investigate and bring to justice those responsible for the 
        attack on United States personnel and facilities in Benghazi, 
        Libya in September 2012: Provided, That the limitation in this 
        paragraph shall not apply to funds made available for the 
        purpose of protecting United States Government personnel or 
        facilities.
            (2) Certification requirement.--Prior to the initial 
        obligation of funds made available by this Act for assistance 
        for Libya, the Secretary of State shall certify and report to 
        the Committees on Appropriations that all practicable steps 
        have been taken to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
        monitoring, oversight, and control of funds made available by 
        this subsection for assistance for Libya, including a 
        description of the vetting procedures to be used for recipients 
        of assistance made available under title IV of this Act.
    (g) Morocco.--Funds appropriated under title III of this Act that 
are made available for assistance for Morocco shall also be made 
available for assistance for any region or territory administered by 
Morocco, including for the Western Sahara: Provided, That not later 
than 45 days after enactment of this Act and prior to the obligation of 
such funds the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development, shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations on the 
proposed uses of such funds based on the requirements described under 
this section in the report accompanying this Act.
    (h) Refugees in North Africa.--The Secretary of State shall take 
all practicable steps to secure the cooperation of the Government of 
Algeria for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to 
conduct a census of the refugee camps near Tindouf, Algeria.
    (i) Syria.--
            (1) Non-lethal assistance.--Funds appropriated under title 
        III of this Act shall be made available, notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law except for this subsection, for non-
        lethal assistance for programs to address the needs of 
        civilians affected by conflict in Syria, and for programs that 
        seek to--
                    (A) establish governance in Syria that is 
                representative, inclusive, and accountable;
                    (B) expand the role of women in negotiations to end 
                the violence and in any political transition in Syria;
                    (C) develop and implement political processes that 
                are democratic, transparent, and adhere to the rule of 
                law;
                    (D) further the legitimacy of the Syrian opposition 
                through cross-border programs;
                    (E) develop civil society and an independent media 
                in Syria;
                    (F) promote economic development in Syria;
                    (G) document, investigate, and prosecute human 
                rights violations in Syria, including through 
                transitional justice programs and support for 
                nongovernmental organizations;
                    (H) counter extremist ideologies;
                    (I) assist Syrian refugees whose education has been 
                interrupted by the ongoing conflict to complete higher 
                education requirements at regional academic 
                institutions; and
                    (J) assist vulnerable populations in Syria and in 
                neighboring countries.
            (2) Strategy update.--Funds appropriated by this Act that 
        are made available for assistance for Syria pursuant to the 
        authority of this subsection may only be made available after 
        the Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads of 
        relevant United States Government agencies, submits, in 
        classified form if necessary, an update to the comprehensive 
        strategy required in section 7041(i)(3) of Public Law 113-76.
            (3) Monitoring and oversight.--Prior to the obligation of 
        funds appropriated by this Act and made available for 
        assistance for Syria, the Secretary of State shall take all 
        practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
        monitoring, oversight, and control of such assistance inside 
        Syria: Provided, That the Secretary shall promptly inform the 
        appropriate congressional committees of each instance in which 
        assistance provided pursuant to this subsection has been 
        compromised, to include the type and amount of assistance 
        affected, a description of the incident and parties involved, 
        and an explanation of the response of the Department of State.
            (4) Consultation and notification.--Funds made available 
        pursuant to this subsection may only be made available 
        following consultation with the appropriate congressional 
        committees, and shall be subject to the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (j) Tunisia.--Of the funds appropriated under titles III and IV of 
this Act, not less than $160,400,000 shall be made available for 
assistance for Tunisia.
    (k) West Bank and Gaza.--
            (1) Report on assistance.--Prior to the initial obligation 
        of funds made available by this Act under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for the West Bank and 
        Gaza, the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that the purpose of such assistance is to--
                    (A) advance Middle East peace;
                    (B) improve security in the region;
                    (C) continue support for transparent and 
                accountable government institutions;
                    (D) promote a private sector economy; or
                    (E) address urgent humanitarian needs.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) None of the funds appropriated under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' in this Act may be 
                made available for assistance for the Palestinian 
                Authority, if after the date of enactment of this Act--
                            (i) the Palestinians obtain the same 
                        standing as member states or full membership as 
                        a state in the United Nations or any 
                        specialized agency thereof outside an agreement 
                        negotiated between Israel and the Palestinians; 
                        or
                            (ii) the Palestinians initiate an 
                        International Criminal Court (ICC) judicially 
                        authorized investigation, or actively support 
                        such an investigation, that subjects Israeli 
                        nationals to an investigation for alleged 
                        crimes against Palestinians.
                    (B)(i) The President may waive the provisions of 
                section 1003 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
                Act, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204) if 
                the President determines and certifies in writing to 
                the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the 
                President pro tempore of the Senate, and the 
                appropriate congressional committees that the 
                Palestinians have not, after the date of enactment of 
                this Act--
                            (I) obtained in the United Nations or any 
                        specialized agency thereof the same standing as 
                        member states or full membership as a state 
                        outside an agreement negotiated between Israel 
                        and the Palestinians; and
                            (II) initiated or actively supported an ICC 
                        investigation against Israeli nationals for 
                        alleged crimes against Palestinians.
                    (ii) Not less than 90 days after the President is 
                unable to make the certification pursuant to clause (i) 
                of this subparagraph, the President may waive section 
                1003 of Public Law 100-204 if the President determines 
                and certifies in writing to the Speaker of the House of 
                Representatives, the President pro tempore of the 
                Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations that the 
                Palestinians have entered into direct and meaningful 
                negotiations with Israel: Provided, That any waiver of 
                the provisions of section 1003 of Public Law 100-204 
                under clause (i) of this subparagraph or under previous 
                provisions of law must expire before the waiver under 
                the preceding sentence may be exercised.
                    (iii) Any waiver pursuant to this subparagraph 
                shall be effective for no more than a period of 6 
                months at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months 
                after the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Reduction.--If the requirements for assistance in 
        sections 7039 and 7040 of this Act are met, the Secretary of 
        State shall reduce the amount of assistance made available by 
        this Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for the 
        Palestinian Authority by an amount the Secretary determines is 
        equivalent to the amount expended by the Palestinian Authority 
        or the Palestine Liberation Organization in payments to 
        individuals and the families of such individuals that are 
        imprisoned for acts of terrorism or who died committing such 
        acts during the previous calendar year: Provided, That the 
        Secretary shall report to the Committees on Appropriations on 
        the amount reduced for fiscal year 2017 prior to the obligation 
        of funds for the Palestinian Authority: Provided further, That 
        the report in the previous proviso shall also include steps 
        taken to prevent any such payments.
            (4) Security report.--The reporting requirements contained 
        in section 1404 of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 
        (Public Law 110-252) shall apply to funds made available by 
        this Act, including a description of modifications, if any, to 
        the security strategy of the Palestinian Authority.
            (5) Incitement report.--Not later than 90 days after 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
        report to the Committees on Appropriations detailing steps 
        taken by the Palestinian Authority to counter incitement of 
        violence against Israelis and to promote peace and coexistence 
        with Israel.

                                 africa

    Sec. 7042. (a) Boko Haram.--Funds appropriated by this Act that are 
made available for assistance for Cameroon, Chad, Niger, and Nigeria--
            (1) shall be made available for assistance for women and 
        girls who are targeted by the terrorist organization Boko 
        Haram, consistent with the provisions of section 7059 of this 
        Act and for individuals displaced by Boko Haram violence; and
            (2) may be made available for counterterrorism programs to 
        combat Boko Haram.
    (b) Central African Republic.--Funds made available by this Act for 
assistance for the Central African Republic shall be made available for 
reconciliation and peacebuilding programs, including activities to 
promote inter-faith dialogue at the national and local levels, and for 
programs to prevent crimes against humanity.
    (c) Counterterrorism Programs.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
Act, not less than $69,821,000 should be made available for the Trans-
Sahara Counter-terrorism Partnership program, and not less than 
$24,150,000 should be made available for the Partnership for Regional 
East Africa Counterterrorism program.
    (d) Lord's Resistance Army.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall 
be made available for programs and activities in areas affected by the 
Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) consistent with the goals of the Lord's 
Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act (Public 
Law 111-172), including to improve physical access, telecommunications 
infrastructure, and early-warning mechanisms and to support the 
disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration of former LRA 
combatants, especially child soldiers.
    (e) Power Africa Initiative.--Funds appropriated by this Act that 
are made available for the Power Africa initiative shall be subject to 
the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.
    (f) South Sudan.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act that are made available 
        for assistance for South Sudan should--
                    (A) be prioritized for programs that respond to 
                humanitarian needs and the delivery of basic services 
                and to mitigate conflict and promote stability, 
                including to address protection needs and prevent and 
                respond to gender-based violence;
                    (B) support programs that build resilience of 
                communities to address food insecurity, maintain 
                educational opportunities, and enhance local 
                governance;
                    (C) be used to advance democracy, including support 
                for civil society, independent media, and other means 
                to strengthen the rule of law;
                    (D) support the transparent and sustainable 
                management of natural resources by assisting the 
                Government of South Sudan in conducting regular audits 
                of financial accounts, including revenues from oil and 
                gas, and the timely public disclosure of such audits; 
                and
                    (E) support the professionalization of security 
                forces, including human rights and accountability to 
                civilian authorities.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act that are 
        available for assistance for the central Government of South 
        Sudan may be made available until the Secretary of State 
        certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
        such government is taking effective steps to--
                    (A) end hostilities and pursue good faith 
                negotiations for a political settlement of the internal 
                conflict;
                    (B) provide access for humanitarian organizations;
                    (C) end the recruitment and use of child soldiers;
                    (D) protect freedoms of expression, association, 
                and assembly;
                    (E) reduce corruption related to the extraction and 
                sale of oil and gas; and
                    (F) establish democratic institutions, including 
                accountable military and police forces under civilian 
                authority.
            (3) The limitation of paragraph (2) shall not apply to--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) assistance to support South Sudan peace 
                negotiations or to advance or implement a peace 
                agreement; and
                    (C) assistance to support implementation of 
                outstanding issues of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement 
                (CPA) and mutual arrangements related to the CPA.
    (g) Sudan.--
            (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
        funds appropriated by this Act may be made available for 
        assistance for the Government of Sudan.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for the cost, as defined in section 502 of the 
        Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of modifying loans and loan 
        guarantees held by the Government of Sudan, including the cost 
        of selling, reducing, or canceling amounts owed to the United 
        States, and modifying concessional loans, guarantees, and 
        credit agreements.
            (3) The limitations of paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not 
        apply to--
                    (A) humanitarian assistance;
                    (B) assistance for democracy programs;
                    (C) assistance for the Darfur region, Southern 
                Kordofan State, Blue Nile State, other marginalized 
                areas and populations in Sudan, and Abyei; and
                    (D) assistance to support implementation of 
                outstanding issues of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement 
                (CPA), mutual arrangements related to post-referendum 
                issues associated with the CPA, or any other 
                internationally recognized viable peace agreement in 
                Sudan.
    (h) Zimbabwe.--
            (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States executive director of each international financial 
        institution to vote against any extension by the respective 
        institution of any loan or grant to the Government of Zimbabwe, 
        except to meet basic human needs or to promote democracy, 
        unless the Secretary of State certifies and reports to the 
        Committees on Appropriations that the rule of law has been 
        restored, including respect for ownership and title to 
        property, and freedoms of expression, association, and 
        assembly.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
        made available for assistance for the central Government of 
        Zimbabwe, except for health and education, unless the Secretary 
        of State certifies and reports as required in paragraph (1), 
        and funds may be made available for macroeconomic growth 
        assistance if the Secretary reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such government is implementing transparent 
        fiscal policies, including public disclosure of revenues from 
        the extraction of natural resources.

                       east asia and the pacific

    Sec. 7043. (a) Burma.--
            (1) Bilateral economic assistance.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for 
                Burma may be made available notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, except for this subsection, and 
                following consultation with the appropriate 
                congressional committees.
                    (B) Funds appropriated under title III of this Act 
                for assistance for Burma--
                            (i) may not be made available for budget 
                        support for the Government of Burma;
                            (ii) shall be made available to strengthen 
                        civil society organizations in Burma, including 
                        as core support for such organizations;
                            (iii) shall be made available for 
                        community-based organizations operating in 
                        Thailand to provide humanitarian assistance to 
                        internally displaced persons in eastern Burma, 
                        in addition to assistance for Burmese refugees 
                        from funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                        heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'';
                            (iv) shall be made available for programs 
                        to promote ethnic and religious tolerance, 
                        including in Rakhine and Kachin states;
                            (v) may not be made available to any 
                        successor or affiliated organization of the 
                        State Peace and Development Council (SPDC) 
                        controlled by former SPDC members that promotes 
                        the repressive policies of the SPDC, or to any 
                        individual or organization credibly alleged to 
                        have committed gross violations of human 
                        rights, including against Rohingya and other 
                        minority groups;
                            (vi) may be made available for programs 
                        administered by the Office of Transition 
                        Initiatives, United States Agency for 
                        International Development (USAID), for ethnic 
                        groups and civil society in Burma to help 
                        sustain ceasefire agreements and further 
                        prospects for reconciliation and peace, which 
                        may include support to representatives of 
                        ethnic armed groups for this purpose; and
                            (vii) may not be made available to any 
                        organization or individual the Secretary of 
                        State determines and reports to the appropriate 
                        congressional committees advocates violence 
                        against ethnic or religious groups and 
                        individuals in Burma.
            (2) International security assistance.--None of the funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the headings ``International 
        Military Education and Training'' and ``Foreign Military 
        Financing Program'' may be made available for assistance for 
        Burma: Provided, That the Department of State may continue 
        consultations with the armed forces of Burma only on human 
        rights and disaster response in a manner consistent with the 
        prior fiscal year, and following consultation with the 
        appropriate congressional committees.
            (3) Multilateral assistance.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
        should instruct the United States executive director of each 
        international financial institution to use the voice and vote 
        of the United States to support projects in Burma only if such 
        projects--
                    (A) promote accountability and transparency, 
                including on-site monitoring throughout the life of the 
                project;
                    (B) are developed and carried out in accordance 
                with best practices regarding environmental 
                conservation; social and cultural protection and 
                empowerment of local populations, particularly ethnic 
                nationalities; and extraction of resources;
                    (C) do not promote the displacement of local 
                populations without appropriate consultation, harm 
                mitigation and compensation, and do not provide 
                incentives for, or facilitate, the forced migration of 
                indigenous communities; and
                    (D) do not partner with or otherwise involve 
                military-owned enterprises or state-owned enterprises 
                associated with the military.
            (4) Programs, position, and responsibilities.--
                    (A) Any new program or activity in Burma initiated 
                in fiscal year 2017 shall be subject to prior 
                consultation with the appropriate congressional 
                committees.
                    (B) Section 7043(b)(7) of the Department of State, 
                Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
                Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall 
                continue in effect during fiscal year 2017 as if part 
                of this Act.
    (b) North Korea.--
            (1) Broadcasts.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``International Broadcasting Operations'' shall be made 
        available to maintain broadcasts into North Korea at levels 
        consistent with the prior fiscal year.
            (2) Refugees.--Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' shall be made 
        available for assistance for refugees from North Korea, 
        including protection activities in the People's Republic of 
        China and other countries in the Asia region.
            (3) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds made 
        available by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
        Fund'' may be made available for assistance for the Government 
        of North Korea.
    (c) People's Republic of China.--
            (1) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds 
        appropriated under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
        Programs'' in this Act may be obligated or expended for 
        processing licenses for the export of satellites of United 
        States origin (including commercial satellites and satellite 
        components) to the People's Republic of China (PRC) unless, at 
        least 15 days in advance, the Committees on Appropriations are 
        notified of such proposed action.
            (2) People's liberation army.--The terms and requirements 
        of section 620(h) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall 
        apply to foreign assistance projects or activities of the 
        People's Liberation Army (PLA) of the PRC, to include such 
        projects or activities by any entity that is owned or 
        controlled by, or an affiliate of, the PLA: Provided, That none 
        of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant 
        to this Act may be used to finance any grant, contract, or 
        cooperative agreement with the PLA, or any entity that the 
        Secretary of State has reason to believe is owned or controlled 
        by, or an affiliate of, the PLA.
            (3) Counter influence programs.--Funds appropriated by this 
        Act for public diplomacy under title I and for assistance under 
        titles III and IV shall be made available to counter the 
        influence of the PRC, in accordance with the strategy required 
        by section 7043(e)(3) of the Department of State, Foreign 
        Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 
        (division K of Public Law 113-76), following consultation with 
        the Committees on Appropriations.
            (4) Prohibition.--
                    (A) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the headings ``Global Health Programs'', 
                ``Development Assistance'', and ``Economic Support 
                Fund'' may be made available for assistance for the 
                government of the People's Republic of China.
                    (B) The limitation of subparagraph (A) shall not 
                apply to assistance described in paragraph (2) of 
                subsection (d) of this section and for programs to 
                detect, prevent, and treat infectious disease.
    (d) Tibet.--
            (1) Financing of projects in tibet.--The Secretary of the 
        Treasury should instruct the United States executive director 
        of each international financial institution to use the voice 
        and vote of the United States to support financing of projects 
        in Tibet if such projects do not provide incentives for the 
        migration and settlement of non-Tibetans into Tibet or 
        facilitate the transfer of ownership of Tibetan land and 
        natural resources to non-Tibetans, are based on a thorough 
        needs-assessment, foster self-sufficiency of the Tibetan people 
        and respect Tibetan culture and traditions, and are subject to 
        effective monitoring.
            (2) Programs for tibetan communities.--
                    (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
                funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
                ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be made available to 
                nongovernmental organizations to support activities 
                which preserve cultural traditions and promote 
                sustainable development, education, and environmental 
                conservation in Tibetan communities in the Tibetan 
                Autonomous Region and in other Tibetan communities in 
                China.
                    (B) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be made 
                available for programs to promote and preserve Tibetan 
                culture, development, and the resilience of Tibetan 
                communities in India and Nepal, and to assist in the 
                education and development of the next generation of 
                Tibetan leaders from such communities: Provided, That 
                such funds are in addition to amounts made available in 
                subparagraph (A) for programs inside Tibet.

                         south and central asia

    Sec. 7044. (a) Afghanistan.--
            (1) Diplomatic operations.--
                    (A) Facilities.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular 
                Programs'', ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
                Maintenance'', and ``Operating Expenses'' that are 
                available for construction and renovation of United 
                States Government facilities in Afghanistan may not be 
                made available if the purpose is to accommodate Federal 
                employee positions or to expand aviation facilities or 
                assets above those notified by the Department of State 
                and the United States Agency for International 
                Development (USAID) to the Committees on 
                Appropriations, or contractors in addition to those in 
                place on the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, 
                That the limitations in this paragraph shall not apply 
                if funds are necessary to implement plans for 
                accommodating other United States Government agencies 
                under Chief of Mission authority per section 3927 of 
                title 22, United States Code, or to protect such 
                facilities or the security, health, and welfare of 
                United States Government personnel.
                    (B) Personnel report.--Not later than 30 days after 
                enactment of this Act and every 120 days thereafter 
                until September 30, 2017, the Secretary of State shall 
                submit a report, in classified form if necessary, to 
                the appropriate congressional committees detailing by 
                agency the number of personnel present in Afghanistan 
                under Chief of Mission authority per section 3927 of 
                title 22, United States Code, at the end of the 120 day 
                period preceding the submission of such report: 
                Provided, That such report shall also include the 
                number of locally employed staff and contractors 
                supporting United States Embassy operations in 
                Afghanistan during the reporting period.
            (2) Assistance and conditions.--
                    (A) Funding and limitations.--Funds appropriated by 
                this Act under the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' 
                and ``International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement'' may be made available for assistance for 
                Afghanistan: Provided, That such funds may not be 
                obligated for any project or activity that--
                            (i) includes the participation of any 
                        Afghan individual or organization that the 
                        Secretary of State determines to be involved in 
                        corrupt practices or a violation of human 
                        rights;
                            (ii) cannot be sustained, as appropriate, 
                        by the Government of Afghanistan or another 
                        Afghan entity;
                            (iii) is inaccessible for the purposes of 
                        conducting regular oversight in accordance with 
                        applicable Federal statutes and regulations; or
                            (iv) initiates any new, major 
                        infrastructure development.
                    (B) Certification and report.--Prior to the initial 
                obligation of funds made available by this Act under 
                the headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
                ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' 
                for assistance for the central Government of 
                Afghanistan, the Secretary of State shall certify and 
                report to the Committees on Appropriations, after 
                consultation with the Government of Afghanistan, that--
                            (i) goals and benchmarks for the specific 
                        uses of such funds have been established by the 
                        Governments of the United States and 
                        Afghanistan;
                            (ii) conditions are in place that increase 
                        the transparency and accountability of the 
                        Government of Afghanistan for funds obligated 
                        under the New Development Partnership;
                            (iii) the Government of Afghanistan is 
                        continuing to implement laws and policies to 
                        govern democratically and protect the rights of 
                        individuals and civil society, including taking 
                        consistent steps to protect and advance the 
                        rights of women and girls in Afghanistan;
                            (iv) the Government of Afghanistan is 
                        reducing corruption and prosecuting individuals 
                        alleged to be involved in illegal activities in 
                        Afghanistan;
                            (v) monitoring and oversight frameworks for 
                        programs implemented with such funds are in 
                        accordance with all applicable audit policies 
                        of the Department of State and USAID;
                            (vi) the necessary policies and procedures 
                        are in place to ensure Government of 
                        Afghanistan compliance with section 7013 of 
                        this Act, ``Prohibition on Taxation of United 
                        States Assistance''; and
                            (vii) the Government of Afghanistan has 
                        established processes for the public reporting 
                        of its national budget, including revenues and 
                        expenditures.
                    (C) Programs to support women and girls.--Funds 
                appropriated by this Act that are made available for 
                assistance for Afghanistan--
                            (i) shall be prioritized for programs that 
                        protect and strengthen the rights of women and 
                        girls and promote the political and economic 
                        empowerment of women, including their 
                        meaningful inclusion in political processes; 
                        and
                            (ii) may be made available for an endowment 
                        to empower women and girls.
            (3) Goals and benchmarks.--Not later than 90 days after 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to 
        the appropriate congressional committees a report describing 
        the goals and benchmarks required in clause (2)(B)(i): 
        Provided, That not later than 6 months after the submission of 
        such report and every 6 months thereafter until September 30, 
        2018, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to such 
        committees on the status of achieving such goals and 
        benchmarks: Provided further, That the Secretary of State 
        should suspend assistance for the Government of Afghanistan if 
        any report required by this paragraph indicates that such 
        government is failing to make measurable progress in meeting 
        such goals and benchmarks.
            (4) Authorities.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under titles III 
                through VI that are made available for assistance for 
                Afghanistan may be made available notwithstanding 
                section 7012 of this Act or any similar provision of 
                law and section 660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
                1961;
                    (B) Subparagraphs (A) and (B)(ii) of section 
                7046(a)(2) of division I of Public Law 112-74 shall 
                apply to funds appropriated by this Act for assistance 
                for Afghanistan.
            (5) Basing rights agreement.--None of the funds made 
        available by this Act may be used by the United States 
        Government to enter into a permanent basing rights agreement 
        between the United States and Afghanistan.
    (b) Pakistan.--
            (1) Certification requirement.--None of the funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act under the 
        headings ``Economic Support Fund'', ``International Narcotics 
        Control and Law Enforcement'', and ``Foreign Military Financing 
        Program'' for assistance for the Government of Pakistan may be 
        made available unless the Secretary of State certifies and 
        reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the Government 
        of Pakistan is--
                    (A) cooperating with the United States in 
                counterterrorism efforts against the Haqqani Network, 
                the Quetta Shura Taliban, Lashkar e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-
                Mohammed, Al-Qaeda, and other domestic and foreign 
                terrorist organizations, including taking effective 
                steps to end support for such groups and prevent them 
                from basing and operating in Pakistan and carrying out 
                cross border attacks into neighboring countries;
                    (B) not supporting terrorist activities against 
                United States or coalition forces in Afghanistan, and 
                Pakistan's military and intelligence agencies are not 
                intervening extra-judicially into political and 
                judicial processes in Pakistan;
                    (C) dismantling improvised explosive device (IED) 
                networks and interdicting precursor chemicals used in 
                the manufacture of IEDs;
                    (D) preventing the proliferation of nuclear-related 
                material and expertise;
                    (E) issuing visas in a timely manner for United 
                States visitors engaged in counterterrorism efforts and 
                assistance programs in Pakistan; and
                    (F) providing humanitarian organizations access to 
                detainees, internally displaced persons, and other 
                Pakistani civilians affected by the conflict.
            (2) Waiver.--The Secretary of State, after consultation 
        with the Secretary of Defense, may waive the certification 
        requirement of paragraph (1) if the Secretary of State 
        determines that to do so is important to the national security 
        interest of the United States and the Secretary submits a 
        report to the Committees on Appropriations, in classified form 
        if necessary, on the justification for the waiver and the 
        reasons why any part of the certification requirement of 
        paragraph (1) has not been met.
            (3) Assistance.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                heading ``Foreign Military Financing Program'' for 
                assistance for Pakistan may be made available only to 
                support counterterrorism and counterinsurgency 
                capabilities in Pakistan.
                    (B) Funds appropriated by this Act under the 
                headings ``Economic Support Fund'' and 
                ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and 
                Related Programs'' that are available for assistance 
                for Pakistan shall be made available to interdict 
                precursor materials from Pakistan to Afghanistan that 
                are used to manufacture IEDs, including calcium 
                ammonium nitrate; to support programs to train border 
                and customs officials in Pakistan and Afghanistan; and 
                for agricultural extension programs that encourage 
                alternative fertilizer use among Pakistani farmers.
            (4) Scholarships for women.--The authority and directives 
        of section 7044(d)(4) of the Department of State, Foreign 
        Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 
        (division J of Public Law 113-235) shall apply to funds 
        appropriated by this Act that are made available for assistance 
        for Pakistan: Provided, That prior to the obligation of funds 
        for such purposes, the USAID Administrator shall consult with 
        the Committees on Appropriations.
            (5) Reports.--
                    (A)(i) The spend plan required by section 7076 of 
                this Act for assistance for Pakistan shall include 
                achievable and sustainable goals, benchmarks for 
                measuring progress, and expected results regarding 
                combating poverty and furthering development in 
                Pakistan, countering terrorism and extremism, and 
                establishing conditions conducive to the rule of law 
                and transparent and accountable governance: Provided, 
                That such benchmarks may incorporate those required in 
                title III of the Enhanced Partnership with Pakistan Act 
                of 2009 (22 U.S.C. 8441 et seq.), as appropriate: 
                Provided further, That not later than 6 months after 
                submission of such spend plan, and each 6 months 
                thereafter until September 30, 2018, the Secretary of 
                State shall submit a report to the Committees on 
                Appropriations on the status of achieving the goals and 
                benchmarks in such plan.
                    (ii) The Secretary of State should suspend 
                assistance for the Government of Pakistan if any report 
                required by clause (i) indicates that Pakistan is 
                failing to make measurable progress in meeting such 
                goals or benchmarks.
                    (B) Not later than 90 days after enactment of this 
                Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to 
                the Committees on Appropriations detailing the costs 
                and objectives associated with significant 
                infrastructure projects supported by the United States 
                in Pakistan, and an assessment of the extent to which 
                such projects achieve such objectives.
            (6) Oversight.--The Secretary of State shall take all 
        practicable steps to ensure that mechanisms are in place for 
        monitoring, oversight, and control of funds made available by 
        this subsection for assistance for Pakistan.
    (c) Regional Programs.--
            (1) Funds appropriated by this Act under the heading 
        ``Economic Support Fund'' for assistance for Afghanistan and 
        Pakistan may be provided, notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law that restricts assistance to foreign countries, for 
        cross border stabilization and development programs between 
        Afghanistan and Pakistan, or between either country and the 
        Central Asian countries.
            (2) Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
        ``Economic Support Fund'', ``International Narcotics Control 
        and Law Enforcement'', and ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
        Central Asia'' that are available for assistance for countries 
        in South and Central Asia shall be made available to enhance 
        the recruitment, retention, and professionalism of women in the 
        judiciary, police, and other security forces.

                           western hemisphere

    Sec. 7045. (a) United States Engagement in Central America.--
            (1) Funding.--Subject to the requirements of this 
        subsection, of the funds appropriated under titles III and IV 
        of this Act, up to $750,000,000 may be made available for 
        assistance for countries in Central America to implement the 
        United States Strategy for Engagement in Central America (the 
        Strategy) in support of the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity 
        in the Northern Triangle of Central America (the Plan): 
        Provided, That the Secretary of State and Administrator of the 
        United States Agency for International Development (USAID) 
        shall prioritize such assistance to address the key factors in 
        such countries contributing to the migration of unaccompanied, 
        undocumented minors to the United States: Provided further, 
        That such funds shall be made available only on a cost-matching 
        basis.
            (2) Pre-obligation requirements.--Prior to the initial 
        obligation of funds made available to implement the Strategy 
        pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of State shall submit 
        to the Committees on Appropriations an updated multi-year spend 
        plan describing in detail the proposed uses of such funds in 
        each country and the objectives, indicators to measure 
        progress, and a timeline to implement the Strategy, and the 
        amounts made available from prior Acts making appropriations 
        for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related 
        programs to support such Strategy: Provided, That such spend 
        plan shall also include a description of how such assistance 
        differs from, complements, and leverages funds allocated by 
        each government and other donors, including international 
        financial institutions.
            (3) Assistance for the central governments of el salvador, 
        guatemala, and honduras.--Funds made available pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) that are available for assistance for each of the 
        central governments of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras 
        shall be withheld from obligation and may only be made 
        available after the Secretary of State certifies and reports to 
        the appropriate congressional committees that such government 
        is taking effective steps to--
                    (A) inform its citizens of the dangers of the 
                journey to the southwest border of the United States;
                    (B) combat human smuggling and trafficking;
                    (C) improve border security;
                    (D) cooperate with United States Government 
                agencies and other governments in the region to 
                facilitate the return, repatriation, and reintegration 
                of illegal migrants arriving at the southwest border of 
                the United States;
                    (E) work cooperatively with an autonomous, publicly 
                accountable entity to provide oversight of the Plan;
                    (F) combat corruption, including investigating and 
                prosecuting government officials credibly alleged to be 
                corrupt;
                    (G) implement reforms, policies, and programs to 
                improve transparency and strengthen public 
                institutions, including increasing the capacity and 
                independence of the judiciary and the Office of the 
                Attorney General;
                    (H) implement a policy to ensure that local 
                communities, civil society organizations (including 
                indigenous and other marginalized groups), and local 
                governments are consulted in the design, and 
                participate in the implementation and evaluation, of 
                activities of the Plan that affect such communities, 
                organizations, and governments;
                    (I) counter the activities of criminal gangs, drug 
                traffickers, and organized crime;
                    (J) investigate and prosecute in the civilian 
                justice system members of military and police forces 
                who are credibly alleged to have violated human rights, 
                and ensure that the military and police are cooperating 
                in such cases;
                    (K) cooperate with commissions against corruption 
                and impunity, as appropriate, and with regional human 
                rights entities;
                    (L) support programs to reduce poverty, create 
                jobs, and promote equitable economic growth in areas 
                contributing to large numbers of migrants;
                    (M) professionalize and improve the accountability 
                of civilian police forces and curtail the role of the 
                military in internal policing;
                    (N) protect the right of political opposition 
                parties, journalists, trade unionists, human rights 
                defenders, and other civil society activists to operate 
                without interference;
                    (O) increase government revenues, including by 
                implementing tax reforms and strengthening customs 
                agencies; and
                    (P) resolve commercial disputes, including the 
                confiscation of real property, between United States 
                entities and such government.
            (4) Suspension of assistance and periodic review.--
                    (A) The Secretary of State shall periodically 
                review the progress of each of the central governments 
                of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in meeting the 
                requirements of paragraph (3) and shall, not later than 
                September 30, 2017, submit to the appropriate 
                congressional committees a report assessing such 
                progress: Provided, That if the Secretary determines 
                that sufficient progress has not been made by a central 
                government, the Secretary shall suspend, in whole or in 
                part, assistance for such government for programs 
                supporting such requirement, and shall notify such 
                committees in writing of such action: Provided further, 
                That the Secretary may resume funding for such programs 
                only after the Secretary certifies to such committees 
                that corrective measures have been taken.
                    (B) The Secretary of State shall, following a 
                change of national government in El Salvador, 
                Guatemala, or Honduras, determine and report to the 
                appropriate congressional committees that any new 
                government has committed to take the steps to meet the 
                requirements of paragraph (3): Provided, That if the 
                Secretary is unable to make such a determination in a 
                timely manner, assistance made available under this 
                subsection for such central government shall be 
                suspended, in whole or in part, until such time as such 
                determination and report can be made.
            (5) Programs and transfer of funds.--
                    (A) Funds appropriated by this Act for the Central 
                America Regional Security Initiative may be made 
                available, following consultation with, and subject to 
                the regular notification procedures of, the Committees 
                on Appropriations, to support international commissions 
                against corruption and impunity.
                    (B) The Secretary of State and USAID Administrator 
                may, following consultation with the Committees on 
                Appropriations, transfer funds made available by this 
                Act under the heading ``Development Assistance'' to the 
                Inter-American Development Bank and the Inter-American 
                Foundation in support of the Strategy.
    (b) Colombia.--
            (1) Funding.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not 
        less than $300,095,000 shall be made available for assistance 
        for Colombia.
            (2) Assistance.--Funds appropriated by this Act and made 
        available to the Department of State for assistance for the 
        Government of Colombia may be used to support a unified 
        campaign against narcotics trafficking, organizations 
        designated as Foreign Terrorist Organizations, and other 
        criminal or illegal armed groups, and to take actions to 
        protect human health and welfare in emergency circumstances, 
        including undertaking rescue operations: Provided, That the 
        first through fifth provisos of paragraph (1), and paragraph 
        (3) of section 7045(a) of the Department of State, Foreign 
        Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2012 
        (division I of Public Law 112-74) shall continue in effect 
        during fiscal year 2017 and shall apply to funds appropriated 
        by this Act and made available for assistance for Colombia as 
        if included in this Act: Provided further, That funds 
        appropriated by this Act under the heading ``Economic Support 
        Fund'' for assistance for Colombia shall be apportioned 
        directly to USAID.
            (3) Final peace accord.--In addition to amounts made 
        available in paragraph (1), $191,130,000 shall be made 
        available for assistance for Colombia if a final peace accord 
        between the Government of Colombia and the Revolutionary Armed 
        Forces of Colombia is reached, and the Secretary of State 
        certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that 
        is in the national interest of the United States to support the 
        implementation of such an accord: Provided, That in making such 
        certification, the Secretary of State shall consider the 
        factors described under this section in the report accompanying 
        this Act: Provided further, That such funds shall be subject to 
        prior consultation with, and the regular notification 
        procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Cuba.--
            (1) Diplomatic facilities.--(A) None of the funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act and prior 
        acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
        operations, and related programs may be obligated or expended 
        for--
                            (i) the establishment or operation of a 
                        United States diplomatic presence, including an 
                        embassy, consulate, or liaison office, in Cuba 
                        beyond that which was in existence prior to 
                        December 17, 2014, including the hiring of 
                        additional staff, unless such staff are 
                        necessary for protecting the health, safety, or 
                        security of diplomatic personnel or facilities 
                        in Cuba;
                            (ii) the facilitation of the establishment 
                        or operation of a diplomatic mission of Cuba, 
                        including an embassy, consulate, or liaison 
                        office, in the United States beyond that which 
                        was in existence prior to December 17, 2014; 
                        and
                            (iii) the support of Locally Employed Staff 
                        in contravention of section 512 of the 
                        Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                        2016 (division M of Public Law 114-113).
                    (B) The limitation on the use of funds under 
                subparagraph (A) shall not apply--
                            (i) with respect to assistance or support 
                        in furtherance of democracy-building efforts 
                        for Cuba described in section 109 of the Cuban 
                        Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) 
                        Act of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 6039); and
                            (ii) if the President determines and 
                        reports to the appropriate congressional 
                        committees that the government in Cuba has met 
                        the requirements and factors specified in 
                        section 205 of the LIBERTAD Act of 1996 (22 
                        U.S.C. 6065).
            (2) Office of cuba broadcasting.--None of the funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act under the 
        heading ``International Broadcasting Operations'' may be used 
        to establish an independent grantee organization, as a private 
        nonprofit organization, to carry out any and all broadcasting 
        and related programs to the Latin America and Caribbean region, 
        including Cuba, or otherwise substantively alter the structure 
        of the Office of Cuba Broadcasting unless specifically 
        authorized by a subsequent Act of Congress: Provided, That the 
        prohibition of this paragraph shall be construed to include the 
        merger of the Office of Cuba Broadcasting and the Voice of 
        America Latin America Division.
            (3) Democracy promotion.--Of the funds appropriated by this 
        Act under the heading ``Economic Support Fund'', $30,000,000 
        shall be made available to promote democracy and strengthen 
        civil society in Cuba: Provided, That no funds shall be 
        obligated for business promotion, economic reform, 
        entrepreneurship, or any other assistance that is not 
        democracy-building as expressly authorized in the Cuban Liberty 
        and Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 and the Cuban Democracy 
        Act of 1992.
    (d) Haiti.--
            (1) Governance certification.--None of the funds 
        appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be 
        made available for assistance for the central Government of 
        Haiti unless the Secretary of State certifies and reports to 
        the Committees on Appropriations that the Government of Haiti 
        has installed a democratically elected president and seated 
        newly elected members of parliament, and the Government of 
        Haiti is taking effective steps to--
                    (A) strengthen the rule of law in Haiti, including 
                by--
                            (i) selecting and vetting judges in a 
                        transparent manner;
                            (ii) respecting the independence of the 
                        judiciary; and
                            (iii) improving governance by implementing 
                        reforms to increase transparency and 
                        accountability and advancing the passage of 
                        draft penal and criminal codes;
                    (B) combat corruption, including by implementing 
                the anti-corruption law enacted in 2014 and prosecuting 
                corrupt officials; and
                    (C) increase government revenues, including by 
                implementing tax reforms, and increase expenditures on 
                public services.
            (2) Haitian coast guard.--The Government of Haiti shall be 
        eligible to purchase defense articles and services under the 
        Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) for the Coast 
        Guard.
    (e) Aircraft Operations and Maintenance.--To the maximum extent 
practicable, the costs of operations and maintenance, including fuel, 
of aircraft funded by this Act should be borne by the recipient 
country.

           prohibition of payments to united nations members

    Sec. 7046.  None of the funds appropriated or made available 
pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act for carrying out the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be used to pay in whole or in part 
any assessments, arrearages, or dues of any member of the United 
Nations or, from funds appropriated by this Act to carry out chapter 1 
of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the costs for 
participation of another country's delegation at international 
conferences held under the auspices of multilateral or international 
organizations.

                          war crimes tribunals

    Sec. 7047.  If the President determines that doing so will 
contribute to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other 
violations of international humanitarian law, the President may direct 
a drawdown pursuant to section 552(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 of up to $30,000,000 of commodities and services for the United 
Nations War Crimes Tribunal established with regard to the former 
Yugoslavia by the United Nations Security Council or such other 
tribunals or commissions as the Council may establish or authorize to 
deal with such violations, without regard to the ceiling limitation 
contained in paragraph (2) thereof: Provided, That the determination 
required under this section shall be in lieu of any determinations 
otherwise required under section 552(c): Provided further, That funds 
made available pursuant to this section shall be made available subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                             united nations

    Sec. 7048. (a) Transparency and Accountability.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated under title I of this Act 
        that are available for contributions to the United Nations 
        (including the Department of Peacekeeping Operations), any 
        United Nations agency, or the Organization of American States, 
        15 percent may not be obligated for such organization, 
        department, or agency until the Secretary of State reports to 
        the Committees on Appropriations that the organization, 
        department, or agency is--
                    (A) posting on a publicly available Web site, 
                consistent with privacy regulations and due process, 
                regular financial and programmatic audits of such 
                organization, department, or agency, and providing the 
                United States Government with necessary access to such 
                financial and performance audits; and
                    (B) effectively implementing and enforcing policies 
                and procedures which reflect best practices for the 
                protection of whistleblowers from retaliation, 
                including best practices for--
                            (i) protection against retaliation for 
                        internal and lawful public disclosures;
                            (ii) legal burdens of proof;
                            (iii) statutes of limitation for reporting 
                        retaliation;
                            (iv) access to independent adjudicative 
                        bodies, including external arbitration; and
                            (v) results that eliminate the effects of 
                        proven retaliation.
            (2) The restrictions imposed by or pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) may be waived on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary of 
        State determines and reports to the Committees on 
        Appropriations that such waiver is necessary to avert or 
        respond to a humanitarian crisis.
    (b) Restrictions on United Nations Delegations and Organizations.--
            (1) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
        used to pay expenses for any United States delegation to any 
        specialized agency, body, or commission of the United Nations 
        if such agency, body, or commission is chaired or presided over 
        by a country, the government of which the Secretary of State 
        has determined, for purposes of section 6(j)(1) of the Export 
        Administration Act of 1979 as continued in effect pursuant to 
        the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. App. 
        2405(j)(1)), supports international terrorism.
            (2) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
        used by the Secretary of State as a contribution to any 
        organization, agency, commission, or program within the United 
        Nations system if such organization, agency, commission, or 
        program is chaired or presided over by a country the government 
        of which the Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of 
        section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, section 40 
        of the Arms Export Control Act, section 6(j)(1) of the Export 
        Administration Act of 1979, or any other provision of law, is a 
        government that has repeatedly provided support for acts of 
        international terrorism.
    (c) United Nations Human Rights Council.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act may be made available in support of the United 
Nations Human Rights Council unless the Secretary of State determines 
and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that participation in 
the Council is in the national security interest of the United States 
and that the Council is taking significant steps to remove Israel as a 
permanent agenda item: Provided, That such report shall include a 
description of the national security interest served and the steps 
taken to remove Israel as a permanent agenda item: Provided further, 
That the Secretary of State shall report to the Committees on 
Appropriations not later than September 30, 2017, on the resolutions 
considered in the United Nations Human Rights Council during the 
previous 12 months, and on steps taken to remove Israel as a permanent 
agenda item.
    (d) United Nations Relief and Works Agency.--None of the funds made 
available by this Act under the heading ``Migration and Refugee 
Assistance'' may be made available as a contribution to the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) until the Secretary of State 
certifies and reports to the Committees on Appropriations, in writing, 
that UNRWA is--
            (1) utilizing Operations Support Officers in the West Bank, 
        Gaza, and other fields of operation to inspect UNRWA 
        installations and reporting any inappropriate use;
            (2) acting promptly to address any staff or beneficiary 
        violation of its own policies (including the policies on 
        neutrality and impartiality of employees) and the legal 
        requirements under section 301(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
        of 1961;
            (3) implementing procedures to maintain the neutrality of 
        its facilities, including implementing a no-weapons policy, and 
        conducting regular inspections of its installations, to ensure 
        they are only used for humanitarian or other appropriate 
        purposes;
            (4) taking necessary and appropriate measures to ensure it 
        is operating in compliance with the conditions of section 
        301(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and continuing 
        regular reporting to the Department of State on actions it has 
        taken to ensure conformance with such conditions;
            (5) taking steps to ensure the content of all educational 
        materials currently taught in UNRWA-administered schools and 
        summer camps is consistent with the values of human rights, 
        dignity, and tolerance and does not induce incitement;
            (6) not engaging in operations with financial institutions 
        or related entities in violation of relevant United States law, 
        and is taking steps to improve the financial transparency of 
        the organization; and
            (7) in compliance with the United Nations Board of 
        Auditors' biennial audit requirements and is implementing in a 
        timely fashion the Board's recommendations.
    (e) United Nations Capital Projects.--None of the funds 
appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs may be 
used for major capital projects for the United Nations, including for 
the design, renovation, or construction of the United Nations 
Headquarters in New York.
    (f) Waiver.--The restrictions imposed by or pursuant to subsection 
(d) may be waived on a case-by-case basis by the Secretary of State if 
the Secretary determines and reports to the Committees on 
Appropriations that such waiver is necessary to avert or respond to a 
humanitarian crisis.
    (g) Withholding Report.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations detailing the amount of funds available 
for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2017 for contributions to 
any organization, department, agency, or program within the United 
Nations system or any international program that are withheld from 
obligation or expenditure due to any provision of law: Provided, That 
the Secretary of State shall update such report each time additional 
funds are withheld by operation of any provision of law: Provided 
further, That the reprogramming of any withheld funds identified in 
such report, including updates thereof, shall be subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (h) Compliance With Reporting Requirements.--Of the funds made 
available in paragraph (3) under the heading ``Diplomatic and Consular 
Programs'' in title I of this Act for the Bureau of International 
Organizations, 10 percent shall be withheld from obligation until the 
Secretary of State complies with the reporting requirements contained 
under the headings ``Contributions to International Organizations'' and 
``Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities'' and section 
7048 in the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 113-235) 
and the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 114-113) and 
associated explanatory statements and Committee reports accompanying 
such Acts.

                   community-based police assistance

    Sec. 7049. (a) Authority.--Funds made available by titles III and 
IV of this Act to carry out the provisions of chapter 1 of part I and 
chapters 4 and 6 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may 
be used, notwithstanding section 660 of that Act, to enhance the 
effectiveness and accountability of civilian police authority through 
training and technical assistance in human rights, the rule of law, 
anti-corruption, strategic planning, and through assistance to foster 
civilian police roles that support democratic governance, including 
assistance for programs to prevent conflict, respond to disasters, 
address gender-based violence, and foster improved police relations 
with the communities they serve.
    (b) Notification.--Assistance provided under subsection (a) shall 
be subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                  prohibition on promotion of tobacco

    Sec. 7050.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, 
or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign country of 
restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except 
for restrictions which are not applied equally to all tobacco or 
tobacco products of the same type.

                       international conferences

    Sec. 7051.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 
employees of agencies or departments of the United States Government 
who are stationed in the United States, at any single international 
conference occurring outside the United States, unless the Secretary of 
State reports to the Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days in 
advance that such attendance is important to the national interest: 
Provided, That for purposes of this section the term ``international 
conference'' shall mean a conference attended by representatives of the 
United States Government and of foreign governments, international 
organizations, or nongovernmental organizations.

                   aircraft transfer and coordination

    Sec. 7052. (a) Transfer Authority.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law or regulation, aircraft procured with funds 
appropriated by this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the 
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs under the 
headings ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Andean Counterdrug 
Initiative'', and ``Andean Counterdrug Programs'' may be used for any 
other program and in any region, including for the transportation of 
active and standby Civilian Response Corps personnel and equipment 
during a deployment: Provided, That the responsibility for policy 
decisions and justification for the use of such transfer authority 
shall be the responsibility of the Secretary of State and the Deputy 
Secretary of State and this responsibility shall not be delegated.
    (b) Property Disposal.--The authority provided in subsection (a) 
shall apply only after the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations that the equipment is no longer 
required to meet programmatic purposes in the designated country or 
region: Provided, That any such transfer shall be subject to prior 
consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (c) Aircraft Coordination.--
            (1) The uses of aircraft purchased or leased by the 
        Department of State and the United States Agency for 
        International Development (USAID) with funds made available in 
        this Act or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department 
        of State, foreign operations, and related programs shall be 
        coordinated under the authority of the appropriate Chief of 
        Mission: Provided, That such aircraft may be used to transport, 
        on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis, Federal and non-
        Federal personnel supporting Department of State and USAID 
        programs and activities: Provided further, That official travel 
        for other agencies for other purposes may be supported on a 
        reimbursable basis, or without reimbursement when traveling on 
        a space available basis: Provided further, That funds received 
        by the Department of State in connection with the use of 
        aircraft owned, leased, or chartered by the Department of State 
        may be credited to the Working Capital Fund of the Department 
        and shall be available for expenses related to the purchase, 
        lease, maintenance, chartering, or operation of such aircraft.
            (2) The requirement and authorities of this subsection 
        shall only apply to aircraft, the primary purpose of which is 
        the transportation of personnel.

   parking fines and real property taxes owed by foreign governments

    Sec. 7053.  The terms and conditions of section 7055 of the 
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 2011 (division F of Public Law 111-117) shall apply 
to this Act: Provided, That the date ``September 30, 2009'' in 
subsection (f)(2)(B) of such section shall be deemed to be ``September 
30, 2016''.

                    landmines and cluster munitions

    Sec. 7054. (a) Landmines.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, demining equipment available to the United States Agency for 
International Development and the Department of State and used in 
support of the clearance of landmines and unexploded ordnance for 
humanitarian purposes may be disposed of on a grant basis in foreign 
countries, subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary of 
State may prescribe.
    (b) Cluster Munitions.--No military assistance shall be furnished 
for cluster munitions, no defense export license for cluster munitions 
may be issued, and no cluster munitions or cluster munitions technology 
shall be sold or transferred, unless--
            (1) the submunitions of the cluster munitions, after 
        arming, do not result in more than 1 percent unexploded 
        ordnance across the range of intended operational environments, 
        and the agreement applicable to the assistance, transfer, or 
        sale of such cluster munitions or cluster munitions technology 
        specifies that the cluster munitions will only be used against 
        clearly defined military targets and will not be used where 
        civilians are known to be present or in areas normally 
        inhabited by civilians; or
            (2) such assistance, license, sale, or transfer is for the 
        purpose of demilitarizing or permanently disposing of such 
        cluster munitions.

                 prohibition on publicity or propaganda

    Sec. 7055.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act 
shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United 
States not authorized before the date of the enactment of this Act by 
Congress: Provided, That not to exceed $25,000 may be made available to 
carry out the provisions of section 316 of the International Security 
and Development Cooperation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-533).

           limitations on family planning/reproductive health

    Sec. 7056. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be made available for the United Nations 
Population Fund.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act for population planning activities or other population 
assistance may be made available to any foreign nongovernmental 
organization that promotes or performs abortion, except in cases of 
rape or incest or when the life of the mother would be endangered if 
the fetus were carried to term.

     united states agency for international development management

    Sec. 7057. (a) Authority.--Up to $93,000,000 of the funds made 
available in title III of this Act pursuant to or to carry out the 
provisions of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including 
funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia 
and Central Asia'', may be used by the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) to hire and employ individuals in the 
United States and overseas on a limited appointment basis pursuant to 
the authority of sections 308 and 309 of the Foreign Service Act of 
1980.
    (b) Restrictions.--
            (1) The number of individuals hired in any fiscal year 
        pursuant to the authority contained in subsection (a) may not 
        exceed 175.
            (2) The authority to hire individuals contained in 
        subsection (a) shall expire on September 30, 2018.
    (c) Conditions.--The authority of subsection (a) should only be 
used to the extent that an equivalent number of positions that are 
filled by personal services contractors or other non-direct hire 
employees of USAID, who are compensated with funds appropriated to 
carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, including funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'', are eliminated.
    (d) Program Account Charged.--The account charged for the cost of 
an individual hired and employed under the authority of this section 
shall be the account to which the responsibilities of such individual 
primarily relate: Provided, That funds made available to carry out this 
section may be transferred to, and merged with, funds appropriated by 
this Act in title II under the heading ``Operating Expenses''.
    (e) Foreign Service Limited Extensions.--Individuals hired and 
employed by USAID, with funds made available in this Act or prior Acts 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs, pursuant to the authority of section 309 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980, may be extended for a period of up to 4 
years notwithstanding the limitation set forth in such section.
    (f) Disaster Surge Capacity.--Funds appropriated under title III of 
this Act to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
including funds appropriated under the heading ``Assistance for Europe, 
Eurasia and Central Asia'', may be used, in addition to funds otherwise 
available for such purposes, for the cost (including the support costs) 
of individuals detailed to or employed by USAID whose primary 
responsibility is to carry out programs in response to natural 
disasters, or man-made disasters subject to the regular notification 
procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
    (g) Personal Services Contractors.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
to carry out chapter 1 of part I, chapter 4 of part II, and section 667 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and title II of the Food for 
Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), may be used by USAID to employ up to 40 
personal services contractors in the United States, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, for the purpose of providing direct, interim 
support for new or expanded overseas programs and activities managed by 
the agency until permanent direct hire personnel are hired and trained: 
Provided, That not more than 15 of such contractors shall be assigned 
to any bureau or office: Provided further, That such funds appropriated 
to carry out title II of the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), 
may be made available only for personal services contractors assigned 
to the Office of Food for Peace.
    (h) Small Business.--In entering into multiple award indefinite-
quantity contracts with funds appropriated by this Act, USAID may 
provide an exception to the fair opportunity process for placing task 
orders under such contracts when the order is placed with any category 
of small or small disadvantaged business.
    (i) Senior Foreign Service Limited Appointments.--Individuals hired 
pursuant to the authority provided by section 7059(o) of the Department 
of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2011 (division F of Public Law 111-117) may be assigned to or support 
programs in Afghanistan or Pakistan with funds made available in this 
Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, 
foreign operations, and related programs.

                        global health activities

    Sec. 7058. (a) In General.--Funds appropriated by titles III and IV 
of this Act that are made available for bilateral assistance for child 
survival activities or disease programs including activities relating 
to research on, and the prevention, treatment and control of, HIV/AIDS 
may be made available notwithstanding any other provision of law except 
for provisions under the heading ``Global Health Programs'' and the 
United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria 
Act of 2003 (117 Stat. 711; 22 U.S.C. 7601 et seq.), as amended.
    (b) Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not more than 
$461,000,000 may be made available for family planning/reproductive 
health.
    (c) Global Fund.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act that are 
available for a contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund), 10 percent should be withheld 
from obligation until the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
the Committees on Appropriations that the Global Fund is--
            (1) maintaining and implementing a policy of transparency, 
        including the authority of the Global Fund Office of the 
        Inspector General (OIG) to publish OIG reports on a public Web 
        site;
            (2) providing sufficient resources to maintain an 
        independent OIG that--
                    (A) reports directly to the Board of the Global 
                Fund;
                    (B) maintains a mandate to conduct thorough 
                investigations and programmatic audits, free from undue 
                interference; and
                    (C) compiles regular, publicly published audits and 
                investigations of financial, programmatic, and 
                reporting aspects of the Global Fund, its grantees, 
                recipients, sub-recipients, and Local Fund Agents;
            (3) effectively implementing and enforcing policies and 
        procedures which reflect best practices for the protection of 
        whistleblowers from retaliation, including best practices for--
                    (A) protection against retaliation for internal and 
                lawful public disclosures;
                    (B) legal burdens of proof;
                    (C) statutes of limitation for reporting 
                retaliation;
                    (D) access to independent adjudicative bodies, 
                including external arbitration; and
                    (E) results that eliminate the effects of proven 
                retaliation; and
            (4) implementing the recommendations contained in the 
        Consolidated Transformation Plan approved by the Board of the 
        Global Fund on November 21, 2011:
 Provided, That such withholding shall not be in addition to funds that 
are withheld from the Global Fund in fiscal year 2017 pursuant to the 
application of any other provision contained in this or any other Act.
    (d) Global Health Emergencies.--If the Secretary of State 
determines and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that an 
international infectious disease outbreak is sustained, severe, and is 
spreading internationally, or that it is in the national interest to 
respond to a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, funds 
made available under title III of this Act may be made available to 
combat such infectious disease or public health emergency: Provided, 
That funds made available pursuant to the authority of this subsection 
shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular 
notification procedures of, the Committees on Appropriations.

                            gender equality

    Sec. 7059. (a) Gender Equality.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
shall be made available to promote gender equality in United States 
Government diplomatic and development efforts by raising the status, 
increasing the participation, and protecting the rights of women and 
girls worldwide.
    (b) Women's Leadership.--Of the funds appropriated by title III of 
this Act, not less than $50,000,000 shall be made available to increase 
leadership opportunities for women in countries where women and girls 
suffer discrimination due to law, policy, or practice, by strengthening 
protections for women's political status, expanding women's 
participation in political parties and elections, and increasing 
women's opportunities for leadership positions in the public and 
private sectors at the local, provincial, and national levels.
    (c) Gender-Based Violence.--
            (1)(A) Of the funds appropriated by titles III and IV of 
        this Act, not less than $150,000,000 shall be made available to 
        implement a multi-year strategy to prevent and respond to 
        gender-based violence in countries where it is common in 
        conflict and non-conflict settings.
            (B) Funds appropriated by titles III and IV of this Act 
        that are available to train foreign police, judicial, and 
        military personnel, including for international peacekeeping 
        operations, shall address, where appropriate, prevention and 
        response to gender-based violence and trafficking in persons, 
        and shall promote the integration of women into the police and 
        other security forces.
            (2) Department of State and United States Agency for 
        International Development gender programs shall incorporate 
        coordinated efforts to combat a variety of forms of gender-
        based violence, including child marriage, rape, female genital 
        cutting and mutilation, and domestic violence, among other 
        forms of gender-based violence in conflict and non-conflict 
        settings.
    (d) Women, Peace, and Security.--Funds appropriated by this Act 
under the headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support 
Fund'', and ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'' 
should be made available to support a multi-year strategy to expand, 
and improve coordination of, United States Government efforts to 
empower women as equal partners in conflict prevention, peace building, 
transitional processes, and reconstruction efforts in countries 
affected by conflict or in political transition, and to ensure the 
equitable provision of relief and recovery assistance to women and 
girls.

                           sector allocations

    Sec. 7060. (a) Basic Education and Higher Education.--
            (1) Basic education.--
                    (A) Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
                this Act, not less than $800,000,000 shall be made 
                available for assistance for basic education, and such 
                funds may be made available notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law that restricts assistance to foreign 
                countries.
                    (B) Not later than 30 days after enactment of this 
                Act, the United States Agency for International 
                Development (USAID) Administrator shall report to the 
                Committees on Appropriations on the status of 
                cumulative unobligated balances and obligated, but 
                unexpended, balances in each country where USAID 
                provides basic education assistance and such report 
                shall also include details on the types of contracts 
                and grants provided and the goals and objectives of 
                such assistance: Provided, That the USAID Administrator 
                shall update such report on a monthly basis during 
                fiscal year 2017.
                    (C) Of the funds appropriated under title III of 
                this Act for assistance for basic education programs, 
                not less than $75,000,000 shall be made available for a 
                contribution to multilateral partnerships that support 
                education.
            (2) Higher education.--(A) Of the funds appropriated under 
        title III of this Act, not less than $235,000,000 shall be made 
        available for assistance for higher education.
            (B) Of the funds made available in subparagraph (A)--
                    (i) not less than $35,000,000 shall be made 
                available for new partnerships between higher education 
                institutions in the United States and developing 
                countries; and
                    (ii) not less than $10,000,000 shall be made 
                available for programs in Malawi.
    (b) Conservation.--
            (1) Biodiversity.--Of the funds appropriated under title 
        III of this Act, not less than $265,000,000 shall be made 
        available for biodiversity conservation programs.
            (2) Wildlife poaching and trafficking.--
                    (A) Not less than $80,000,000 of the funds 
                appropriated under titles III and IV of this Act shall 
                be made available to combat the transnational threat of 
                wildlife poaching and trafficking.
                    (B) None of the funds appropriated under title IV 
                of this Act may be made available for training or other 
                assistance for any military unit or personnel that the 
                Secretary of State determines has been credibly alleged 
                to have participated in wildlife poaching or 
                trafficking, unless the Secretary reports to the 
                Committees on Appropriations that to do so is in the 
                national security interests of the United States.
    (c) Development Programs.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act 
under the heading ``Development Assistance'', not less than $26,000,000 
shall be made available for the American Schools and Hospitals Abroad 
program, and not less than $11,000,000 shall be made available for 
cooperative development programs of USAID.
    (d) Food Security and Agricultural Development.--Funds appropriated 
by title III of this Act should be made available for food security and 
agricultural development programs and may be made available 
notwithstanding any other provision of law to prevent or address food 
shortages: Provided, That not less than $60,000,000 shall be made 
available for the Feed the Future Innovation Labs.
    (e) Microenterprise and Microfinance.--Of the funds appropriated by 
this Act, not less than $265,000,000 should be made available for 
microenterprise and microfinance development programs for the poor, 
especially women.
    (f) Programs To Combat Trafficking in Persons.--
            (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        headings ``Development Assistance'', ``Economic Support Fund'', 
        ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', and 
        ``International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', not 
        less than $65,000,000 shall be made available for activities to 
        combat trafficking in persons internationally.
            (2) Funds made available in the previous paragraph shall be 
        made available to support a multifaceted approach to combat 
        human trafficking in Guatemala: Provided, That the Secretary of 
        State shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations, not 
        later than 30 days after enactment of this Act, on the use of 
        such funds: Provided further, That not later than 120 days 
        after enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a 
        report to the Committees on Appropriations on the requirements 
        enumerated under this section in the report accompanying this 
        Act.
    (g) Water and Sanitation.--Of the funds appropriated by this Act, 
not less than $400,000,000 shall be made available for water supply and 
sanitation projects pursuant to the Senator Paul Simon Water for the 
Poor Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-121), of which not less than 
$145,000,000 shall be for programs in sub-Saharan Africa.

                    limitation on computer networks

    Sec. 7061. (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds made available in 
this Act may be used to maintain or establish a computer network unless 
such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of 
pornography.
    (b) Exception for Law Enforcement.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall 
limit the use of funds necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or 
local law enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal 
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities.

                           arms trade treaty

    Sec. 7062.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the 
Senate approves a resolution of ratification for the Treaty.

  countries impacted by significant refugee populations or internally 
                           displaced persons

    Sec. 7063.  Funds appropriated by this Act under the headings 
``Development Assistance'' and ``Economic Support Fund'' shall be made 
available for programs in countries affected by significant populations 
of internally displaced persons or refugees to--
            (1) expand and improve host government social services and 
        basic infrastructure to accommodate the needs of such 
        populations and persons;
            (2) alleviate the social and economic strains placed on 
        host communities;
            (3) improve coordination of such assistance in a more 
        effective and sustainable manner;
            (4) leverage increased assistance from donors other than 
        the United States Government for central governments and local 
        communities in such countries; and
            (5) promote livelihoods programming, vocational training, 
        and formal and informal education.

    reporting requirements concerning individuals detained at naval 
                     station, guantanamo bay, cuba

    Sec. 7064. (a) Agreements.--Not later than 5 days after the 
conclusion of an agreement with a country, including a state with a 
compact of free association with the United States, to receive by 
transfer or release individuals detained at United States Naval 
Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the Secretary of State shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations in writing of the terms of the agreement, 
including whether funds appropriated by this Act or prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs will be made available for assistance for such country 
pursuant to such agreement.
    (b) Negotiations.--The Secretary of State shall report to the 
Committees on Appropriations, not more than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, and every 45 days thereafter through fiscal year 2017, on 
negotiations over the previous 45 days between Department of State 
personnel and officials of Foreign governments over the potential 
transfer to such governments of an individual, or individuals, detained 
at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba: Provided, That 
such reports may be provided in classified form if necessary.

                           multi-year pledges

    Sec. 7065.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to make any pledge for future year funding for any multilateral or 
bilateral program funded in titles III through VI of this Act unless 
such pledge was--
            (1) previously justified, including the projected future 
        year costs, in a congressional budget justification;
            (2) included in an Act making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        or previously authorized by an Act of Congress;
            (3) notified in accordance with the regular notification 
        procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, including the 
        projected future year costs; or
            (4) the subject of prior consultation with the Committees 
        on Appropriations and such consultation was conducted at least 
        7 days in advance of the pledge.

                     prohibition on use of torture

    Sec. 7066.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to support or justify the use of torture, cruel, or inhumane 
treatment by any official or contract employee of the United States 
Government.

                              extradition

    Sec. 7067. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated in this 
Act may be used to provide assistance (other than funds provided under 
the headings ``International Disaster Assistance'', ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', ``Migration and Refugee 
Assistance'', ``United States Emergency Refugee and Migration 
Assistance Fund'', and ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and 
Related Assistance'') for the central government of a country which has 
notified the Department of State of its refusal to extradite to the 
United States any individual indicted for a criminal offense for which 
the maximum penalty is life imprisonment without the possibility of 
parole or for killing a law enforcement officer, as specified in a 
United States extradition request.
    (b) Clarification.--Subsection (a) shall only apply to the central 
government of a country with which the United States maintains 
diplomatic relations and with which the United States has an 
extradition treaty and the government of that country is in violation 
of the terms and conditions of the treaty.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the restriction in 
subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary certifies to 
the Committees on Appropriations that such waiver is important to the 
national interests of the United States.

                 commercial leasing of defense articles

    Sec. 7068.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject 
to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations, the authority of section 23(a) of the Arms Export 
Control Act may be used to provide financing to Israel, Egypt, and the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and major non-NATO allies 
for the procurement by leasing (including leasing with an option to 
purchase) of defense articles from United States commercial suppliers, 
not including Major Defense Equipment (other than helicopters and other 
types of aircraft having possible civilian application), if the 
President determines that there are compelling foreign policy or 
national security reasons for those defense articles being provided by 
commercial lease rather than by government-to-government sale under 
such Act.

             independent states of the former soviet union

    Sec. 7069. (a) Assistance for Ukraine and to Counter Russian 
Aggression.--
    (1) Of the funds appropriated by this Act, not less than 
$337,857,000 shall be made available for assistance for Ukraine.
    (2) In addition to amounts made available in paragraph (1), up to 
$325,608,000 shall be made available for assistance for Ukraine, 
including for the cost of loan guarantees as authorized by section 
7034(m) of this Act, in the manner described under this section in the 
report accompanying this Act: Provided, That such funds shall be made 
available after prior consultation with the appropriate congressional 
committees and subject to the regular notification procedures of the 
Committees on Appropriations.
    (b) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
made available for assistance for a government of an Independent State 
of the former Soviet Union if that government directs any action in 
violation of the territorial integrity or national sovereignty of any 
other independent state of the former Soviet Union, such as those 
violations included in the Helsinki Final Act: Provided, That except as 
otherwise provided in section 7070(a) of this Act, funds may be made 
available without regard to the restriction in this subsection if the 
President determines that to do so is in the national security interest 
of the United States: Provided further, That prior to executing the 
authority contained in this subsection the Secretary of State shall 
consult with the Committees on Appropriations on how such assistance 
supports the national security interest of the United States.
    (c) Section 907 of the Freedom Support Act.--Section 907 of the 
FREEDOM Support Act shall not apply to--
            (1) activities to support democracy or assistance under 
        title V of the FREEDOM Support Act and section 1424 of the 
        Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 (50 
        U.S.C. 2333) or non-proliferation assistance;
            (2) any assistance provided by the Trade and Development 
        Agency under section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
        (22 U.S.C. 2421);
            (3) any activity carried out by a member of the United 
        States and Foreign Commercial Service while acting within his 
        or her official capacity;
            (4) any insurance, reinsurance, guarantee, or other 
        assistance provided by the Overseas Private Investment 
        Corporation under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.);
            (5) any financing provided under the Export-Import Bank Act 
        of 1945; or
            (6) humanitarian assistance.

                                 russia

    Sec. 7070. (a) Limitation.--None of the funds appropriated by this 
Act may be made available for assistance for the central Government of 
the Russian Federation.
    (b) Determination and Conditions.--
            (1) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for assistance for the central government of a 
        country that the Secretary of State determines and reports to 
        the Committees on Appropriations has taken affirmative steps 
        intended to support or be supportive of the Russian Federation 
        annexation of Crimea: Provided, That except as otherwise 
        provided in subsection (a), the Secretary may waive the 
        restriction on assistance required by this paragraph if the 
        Secretary certifies to such Committees that to do so is in the 
        national interest of the United States, and includes a 
        justification for such interest.
            (2) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be made 
        available for--
                    (A) the implementation of any action or policy that 
                recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation 
                over Crimea;
                    (B) the facilitation, financing, or guarantee of 
                United States Government investments in Crimea, if such 
                activity includes the participation of Russian 
                Government officials, or other Russian owned or 
                controlled financial entities; or
                    (C) assistance for Crimea, if such assistance 
                includes the participation of Russian Government 
                officials, or other Russian owned or controlled 
                financial entities.
            (3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United 
        States executive directors of each international financial 
        institution to vote against any assistance by such institution 
        (including but not limited to any loan, credit, or guarantee) 
        for any program that violates the sovereignty or territorial 
        integrity of Ukraine.
            (4) The requirements and limitations of this subsection 
        shall cease to be in effect if the Secretary of State certifies 
        and reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the 
        Government of Ukraine has reestablished sovereignty over 
        Crimea.
    (c) Assistance to Reduce Vulnerability and Pressure.--Funds 
appropriated by this Act for assistance for the Eastern Partnership 
countries shall be made available to advance the implementation of 
Association Agreements and trade agreements with the European Union, 
and to reduce their vulnerability to external economic and political 
pressure from the Russian Federation.
    (d) Democracy Programs.--Funds appropriated by this Act shall be 
made available to support the advancement of democracy and the rule of 
law in the Russian Federation, including to promote Internet freedom.
    (e) Reports.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State shall update the reports required by section 
7071(b)(2), (c), and (e) of the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K 
of Public Law 113-76).

                      international monetary fund

    Sec. 7071. (a) Extensions.--The terms and conditions of sections 
7086(b) (1) and (2) and 7090(a) of the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2010 (division F 
of Public Law 111-117) shall apply to this Act.
    (b) Repayment.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the 
United States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF) to seek to ensure that any loan will be repaid to the IMF before 
other private creditors.

                    special defense acquisition fund

    Sec. 7072.  Not to exceed $900,000,000 may be obligated pursuant to 
section 51(c)(2) of the Arms Export Control Act for the purposes of the 
Special Defense Acquisition Fund (Fund), to remain available for 
obligation until September 30, 2019: Provided, That the provision of 
defense articles and defense services to foreign countries or 
international organizations from the Fund shall be subject to the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State.

    countering foreign fighters and violent extremist organizations

    Sec. 7073. (a) Countering Foreign Fighters and Violent Extremist 
Organizations.--Funds appropriated under titles III and IV of this Act 
shall be made available for programs to--
            (1) counter the flow of foreign fighters to countries in 
        which violent extremists or violent extremist organizations 
        operate, including those entities designated as foreign 
        terrorist organizations (FTOs) pursuant to section 219 of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act, including through programs 
        with partner governments and multilateral organizations to--
                    (A) counter recruitment campaigns by such entities;
                    (B) detect and disrupt foreign fighter travel, 
                particularly at points of origin;
                    (C) implement antiterrorism programs;
                    (D) secure borders, including points of 
                infiltration and exfiltration by such entities;
                    (E) implement and establish criminal laws and 
                policies to counter foreign fighters; and
                    (F) arrest, investigate, prosecute, and incarcerate 
                terrorist suspects, facilitators, and financiers; and
            (2) counter violent extremists and violent extremist 
        organizations, including FTOs, by supporting security and 
        governance programs in countries whose stability and legitimacy 
        are directly threatened by violence against state institutions 
        by such entities, including at the national and local levels, 
        and in fragile states bordering such countries.
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) The Secretary of State shall ensure that the programs 
        described in subsection (a) are coordinated with and complement 
        the efforts of other United States Government agencies and 
        international partners, and that such programs are consistent 
        with all applicable laws, regulations, and policies regarding 
        the use of foreign assistance funds: Provided, That the 
        Secretary shall also ensure that information gained through the 
        conduct of programs is shared in a timely manner with relevant 
        United States Government agencies and other international 
        partners, as appropriate.
            (2) Prior to the obligation of funds appropriated by this 
        Act and made available for the purposes of this section, the 
        Secretary of State shall ensure that mechanisms are in place 
        for appropriate monitoring, oversight, vetting, and control of 
        such assistance: Provided, That the Secretary shall promptly 
        inform the appropriate congressional committees of each 
        significant instance in which assistance provided for such 
        purposes has been compromised, including the amount and type of 
        assistance affected, a description of the incident and parties 
        involved, and an explanation of the response of the Department 
        of State.
            (3) Funds appropriated by this Act that are made available 
        for programs described in subsection (a) shall be subject to 
        the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
        Appropriations.

                            enterprise funds

    Sec. 7074. (a) Notification Requirement.--None of the funds made 
available under titles III through VI of this Act may be made available 
for Enterprise Funds unless the appropriate congressional committees 
are notified at least 15 days in advance.
    (b) Distribution of Assets Plan.--Prior to the distribution of any 
assets resulting from any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of an 
Enterprise Fund, in whole or in part, the President shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a plan for the distribution of the 
assets of the Enterprise Fund.
    (c) Transition or Operating Plan.--Prior to a transition to and 
operation of any private equity fund or other parallel investment fund 
under an existing Enterprise Fund, the President shall submit such 
transition or operating plan to the appropriate congressional 
committees.

               use of funds in contravention of this act

    Sec. 7075.  If the President makes a determination not to comply 
with any provision of this Act on constitutional grounds, the head of 
the relevant Federal agency shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations in writing within 5 days of such determination, the 
basis for such determination and any resulting changes to program and 
policy.

                            budget documents

    Sec. 7076. (a) Operating Plans.--Not later than 45 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, each department, agency, or organization 
funded in titles I, II, and VI of this Act, and the Department of the 
Treasury and Independent Agencies funded in title III of this Act, 
including the Inter-American Foundation and the United States African 
Development Foundation, shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations an operating plan for funds appropriated to such 
department, agency, or organization in such titles of this Act, or 
funds otherwise available for obligation in fiscal year 2017, that 
provides details of the uses of such funds at the program, project, and 
activity level: Provided, That such plans shall include, as applicable, 
a comparison between the most recent congressional directives or 
approved funding levels and the funding levels proposed by the 
department or agency; and a clear, concise, and informative 
description/justification: Provided further, That if such department, 
agency, or organization receives an additional amount under the same 
heading in title VIII of this Act, operating plans required by this 
subsection shall include consolidated information on all such funds: 
Provided further, That operating plans that include changes in levels 
of funding for programs, projects, and activities specified in the 
congressional budget justification, in this Act, or amounts 
specifically designated in the respective tables included in the report 
accompanying this Act, as applicable, shall be subject to the 
notification and reprogramming requirements of section 7015 of this 
Act.
    (b) Spend Plans.--
            (1) Prior to the initial obligation of funds, the Secretary 
        of State or Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development (USAID), as appropriate, shall submit 
        to the Committees on Appropriations a detailed spend plan for 
        funds made available by this Act, for--
                    (A) assistance for Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon, 
                Pakistan, and the West Bank and Gaza;
                    (B) Power Africa and the regional security 
                initiatives listed under this section in the report 
                accompanying this Act: Provided, That the spend plan 
                for such initiatives shall include the amount of 
                assistance planned for each country by account, to the 
                maximum extent practicable; and
                    (C) democracy programs, programs to support section 
                7073(a) of this Act, and sectors enumerated in 
                subsections (a), (c), (d), (f), and (g) of section 7060 
                of this Act.
            (2) Not later than 45 days after enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations a detailed spend plan for funds made available 
        by this Act under the heading ``Department of the Treasury, 
        International Affairs Technical Assistance'' in title III.
    (c) Spending Report.--Not later than 45 days after enactment of 
this Act, the USAID Administrator shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations a detailed report on spending of funds made available 
during fiscal year 2016 under the heading ``Development Credit 
Authority''.
    (d) Notifications.--The spend plans referenced in subsection (b) 
shall not be considered as meeting the notification requirements in 
this Act or under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (e) Congressional Budget Justification.--
            (1) The congressional budget justification for Department 
        of State operations and foreign operations shall be provided to 
        the Committees on Appropriations concurrent with the date of 
        submission of the President's budget for fiscal year 2018: 
        Provided, That the appendices for such justification shall be 
        provided to the Committees on Appropriations not later than 10 
        calendar days thereafter.
            (2) The Secretary of State and the USAID Administrator 
        shall include in the congressional budget justification a 
        detailed justification for multi-year availability for any 
        funds requested under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular 
        Programs'' and ``Operating Expenses''.

                     reports and records management

    Sec. 7077. (a) Public Posting of Reports.--
            (1) Requirement.--Any agency receiving funds made available 
        by this Act shall, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), post on 
        the publicly available Web site of such agency any report 
        required by this Act to be submitted to the Committees on 
        Appropriations, upon a determination by the head of such agency 
        that to do so is in the national interest.
            (2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a report 
        if--
                    (A) the public posting of such report would 
                compromise national security, including the conduct of 
                diplomacy; or
                    (B) the report contains proprietary, privileged, or 
                sensitive information.
            (3) Timing and intention.--The head of the agency posting 
        such report shall, unless otherwise provided for in this Act, 
        do so only after such report has been made available to the 
        Committees on Appropriations for not less than 45 days: 
        Provided, That any report required by this Act to be submitted 
        to the Committees on Appropriations shall include information 
        from the submitting agency on whether such report will be 
        publicly posted.
    (b) Requests for Documents.--None of the funds appropriated or made 
available pursuant to titles III through VI of this Act shall be 
available to a nongovernmental organization, including any contractor, 
which fails to provide upon timely request any document, file, or 
record necessary to the auditing requirements of the Department of 
State and the United States Agency for International Development 
(USAID).
    (c) Records Management.--
            (1) Limitation and directives.--
                    (A) None of the funds appropriated by this Act 
                under the headings ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' 
                and ``Capital Investment Fund'' in title I, and 
                ``Operating Expenses'' in title II that are made 
                available to the Department of State and USAID may be 
                made available to support the use or establishment of 
                email accounts or email servers created outside the 
                .gov domain or not fitted for automated records 
                management as part of a Federal government records 
                management program in contravention of the Presidential 
                and Federal Records Act Amendments of 2014 (Public Law 
                113-187).
                    (B) The Secretary of State and USAID Administrator 
                shall--
                            (i) update the policies, directives, and 
                        oversight necessary to comply with Federal 
                        statutes, regulations, and presidential 
                        executive orders and memoranda concerning the 
                        preservation of all records made or received in 
                        the conduct of official business, including 
                        record emails, instant messaging, and other 
                        online tools;
                            (ii) use funds appropriated or otherwise 
                        made available by this Act under the headings 
                        ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'' and 
                        ``Capital Investment Fund'' in title I, and 
                        ``Operating Expenses'' in title II, as 
                        appropriate, to improve Federal records 
                        management pursuant to the Federal Records Act 
                        (44 U.S.C. Chapters 21, 29, 31, and 33) and 
                        other applicable Federal records management 
                        statutes, regulations, or policies for the 
                        Department of State and USAID;
                            (iii) direct departing employees that all 
                        Federal records generated by such employees, 
                        including senior officials, belong to the 
                        Federal Government; and
                            (iv) measurably improve the response time 
                        for identifying and retrieving Federal records.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 30 days after enactment of this 
        Act, the Secretary of State and USAID Administrator shall each 
        submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations and to the 
        National Archives and Records Administration detailing, as 
        appropriate and where applicable--
                    (A) any updates or modifications made to the policy 
                of each agency regarding the use or the establishment 
                of email accounts or email servers created outside the 
                .gov domain or not fitted for automated records 
                management as part of a Federal government records 
                management program since the submission to the 
                Committees on Appropriations on January 20, 2016, of 
                the report required by section 7077(c)(2) of the 
                Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
                Programs Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of Public 
                Law 114-113);
                    (B) the extent to which each agency is in 
                compliance with applicable Federal records management 
                statutes, regulations, and policies, including meeting 
                Directive goal 1.2 of the Managing Government Records 
                Directive (M-12-18) by December 31, 2016; and
                    (C) any updates or modifications made to the steps 
                required, including steps already taken, since the 
                submission of the report referenced in subparagraph (A) 
                to--
                            (i) comply with paragraph (1)(B) of this 
                        subsection;
                            (ii) ensure that all employees at every 
                        level have been instructed in procedures and 
                        processes to ensure that the documentation of 
                        their official duties is captured, preserved, 
                        managed, protected, and accessible in official 
                        Government systems of the Department of State 
                        and USAID;
                            (iii) implement the recommendations made by 
                        the Office of Inspector General, United States 
                        Department of State (OIG), in the March 2015 
                        Review of State Messaging and Archive Retrieval 
                        Toolset and Record Email (ISP-1-15-15) and the 
                        January 2016 Evaluation of the Department of 
                        State's FOIA Process for Requests Involving the 
                        Office of the Secretary (ESP-16-01), that are 
                        outstanding and remain to be closed;
                            (iv) reduce the backlog of Freedom of 
                        Information Act (FOIA) and Congressional 
                        oversight requests, and measurably improve the 
                        response time for answering such requests; and
                            (v) strengthen cyber security measures to 
                        mitigate vulnerabilities, including those 
                        resulting from the use of personal email 
                        accounts or servers outside the .gov domain and 
                        implement the recommendations of the OIG in the 
                        May 2016 Evaluation of Email Records Management 
                        and Cybersecurity Requirements (ESP-16-03).
            (3) Implementation and spend plan report.--Not later than 
        30 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and 
        USAID Administrator shall each submit to the Committees on 
        Appropriations a plan and timeline, which may be submitted 
        concurrent with the report required by paragraph (2) for--
                    (A) implementing the recommendations of the OIG 
                reports referenced in clauses (iii) and (v);
                    (B) measurably reducing the FOIA and Congressional 
                oversight requests backlog; and
                    (C) a spend plan for meeting the objectives of 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B).
            (4) Report assessment.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        submission of the reports required by paragraph (2), the 
        Comptroller General of the United States, in consultation with 
        National Archives and Records Administration, as appropriate, 
        shall conduct an assessment of such reports, and shall consult 
        with the Committees on Appropriations on the scope and 
        requirements of such assessment.
            (5) Funding.--Of funds appropriated by this Act under the 
        heading ``Capital Investment Fund'' in title I, $10,000,000 
        shall be withheld from obligation until the Secretary submits 
        the reports required by paragraphs (2) and (3).

                        global internet freedom

    Sec. 7078. (a) Funding.--Of the funds available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2017 under the headings ``International Broadcasting 
Operations'', ``Economic Support Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', and 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', not less than 
$50,500,000 shall be made available for programs to promote Internet 
freedom globally: Provided, That such programs shall be prioritized for 
countries whose governments restrict freedom of expression on the 
Internet, and that are important to the national interests of the 
United States: Provided further, That funds made available pursuant to 
this section shall be matched, to the maximum extent practicable, by 
sources other than the United States Government, including from the 
private sector.
    (b) Requirements.--Funds made available pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall be--
            (1) coordinated with other democracy, governance, and 
        broadcasting programs funded by this Act under the headings 
        ``International Broadcasting Operations'', ``Economic Support 
        Fund'', ``Democracy Fund'', and ``Assistance for Europe, 
        Eurasia and Central Asia'', and shall be incorporated into 
        country assistance, democracy promotion, and broadcasting 
        strategies, as appropriate;
            (2) made available to the Bureau of Democracy, Human 
        Rights, and Labor, Department of State for programs to 
        implement the May 2011, International Strategy for Cyberspace 
        and the comprehensive strategy to promote Internet freedom and 
        access to information in Iran, as required by section 414 of 
        the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 
        (22 U.S.C. 8754);
            (3) made available to the Broadcasting Board of Governors 
        (BBG) to provide tools and techniques to access the Web sites 
        of BBG broadcasters that are censored, and to work with such 
        broadcasters to promote and distribute such tools and 
        techniques, including digital security techniques;
            (4) made available for programs that support the efforts of 
        civil society to counter the development of repressive 
        Internet-related laws and regulations, including countering 
        threats to Internet freedom at international organizations; to 
        combat violence against bloggers and other users; and to 
        enhance digital security training and capacity building for 
        democracy activists; and
            (5) made available for research of key threats to Internet 
        freedom; the continued development of technologies that provide 
        or enhance access to the Internet, including circumvention 
        tools that bypass Internet blocking, filtering, and other 
        censorship techniques used by authoritarian governments; and 
        maintenance of the technological advantage of the United States 
        Government over such censorship techniques: Provided, That the 
        Secretary of State, in consultation with the BBG Chairman, 
        shall coordinate any such research and development programs 
        with other relevant United States Government departments and 
        agencies in order to share information, technologies, and best 
        practices, and to assess the effectiveness of such 
        technologies.
    (c) Coordination and Spend Plans.--After consultation among the 
relevant agency heads to coordinate and de-conflict planned activities, 
but not later than 90 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of State and the BBG Chairman shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations spend plans for funds made available by this Act for 
programs to promote Internet freedom globally, which shall include a 
description of safeguards established by relevant agencies to ensure 
that such programs are not used for illicit purposes: Provided, That 
the Department of State spend plan shall include funding for all such 
programs for all relevant Department of State and USAID offices and 
bureaus: Provided further, That prior to the obligation of such funds, 
such offices and bureaus shall consult with the Assistant Secretary for 
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State, to ensure that 
such programs support the Department of State Internet freedom 
strategy.

                  impact on jobs in the united states

    Sec. 7079.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under titles III through VI of this Act or any other Act 
making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs, may be obligated or expended to provide--
            (1) for fiscal year 2017, any financial incentive to a 
        business enterprise currently located in the United States for 
        the purpose of inducing such an enterprise to relocate outside 
        the United States if such incentive or inducement is likely to 
        reduce the number of employees of such business enterprise in 
        the United States because United States production is being 
        replaced by such enterprise outside the United States;
            (2) for fiscal year 2017, assistance for any program, 
        project, or activity that contributes to the violation of 
        internationally recognized workers' rights, as defined in 
        section 507(4) of the Trade Act of 1974, of workers in the 
        recipient country, including any designated zone or area in 
        that country: Provided, That the application of section 
        507(4)(D) and (E) of such Act should be commensurate with the 
        level of development of the recipient country and sector, and 
        shall not preclude assistance for the informal sector in such 
        country, micro and small-scale enterprise, and smallholder 
        agriculture;
            (3) for fiscal year 2017, any assistance to an entity 
        outside the United States if such assistance is for the purpose 
        of directly relocating or transferring jobs from the United 
        States to other countries and adversely impacts the labor force 
        in the United States; or
            (4) for fiscal year 2017, or any fiscal year thereafter, 
        for the enforcement of any rule, regulation, policy, or 
        guidelines implemented pursuant to--
                    (A) the third proviso of subsection 7079(b) of the 
                Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010;
                    (B) the modification proposed by the Overseas 
                Private Investment Corporation in November 2013 to the 
                Corporation's Environmental and Social Policy Statement 
                relating to coal;
                    (C) the Supplemental Guidelines for High Carbon 
                Intensity Projects approved by the Export-Import Bank 
                of the United States on December 12, 2013; or
                    (D) the World Bank Group's Directions for the World 
                Bank Group's Energy Sector released on July 16, 2013,
        when enforcement of such rule, regulation, policy, or 
        guidelines would prohibit, or have the effect of prohibiting, 
        any coal-fired or other power-generation project the purpose of 
        which is to increase exports of goods and services from the 
        United States or prevent the loss of jobs in the United States.

                           quorum requirement

    Sec. 7080. Section 1 of Public Law 106-46 (12 U.S.C. 635a note) is 
amended by striking ``July 21, 1999, and ends on December 2, 1999'' and 
inserting ``October 1, 2016, and ends on September 30, 2019'': 
Provided, That the amendment made pursuant to this subparagraph to such 
law shall take effect upon enactment of this Act.

                               TITLE VIII

        OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', 
$2,410,386,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, of which 
$1,815,210,000 is for Worldwide Security Protection and shall remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the Secretary of State may 
transfer up to $5,000,000 of the total funds made available under this 
heading to any other appropriation of any department or agency of the 
United States, upon the concurrence of the head of such department or 
agency, to support operations in and assistance for Afghanistan and to 
carry out the provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961: 
Provided further, That any such transfer shall be subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That up to $15,000,000 of the funds appropriated 
under this heading in this title may be made available for Conflict 
Stabilization Operations and for related reconstruction and 
stabilization assistance to prevent or respond to conflict or civil 
strife in foreign countries or regions, or to enable transition from 
such strife: Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for ``Office of Inspector General'', 
$54,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, which shall 
be for the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction 
(SIGAR) for reconstruction oversight: Provided, That printing and 
reproduction costs shall not exceed amounts for such costs during 
fiscal year 2016: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, any employee of SIGAR who completes at least 12 
months of continuous service after the date of enactment of this Act or 
who is employed on the date on which SIGAR terminates, whichever occurs 
first, shall acquire competitive status for appointment to any position 
in the competitive service for which the employee possesses the 
required qualifications: Provided further, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            embassy security, construction, and maintenance

    For an additional amount for ``Embassy Security, Construction, and 
Maintenance'', $1,238,800,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $1,228,000,000 shall be for Worldwide Security Upgrades, 
acquisition, and construction as authorized: Provided, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                      International Organizations

              contributions to international organizations

    For an additional amount for ``Contributions to International 
Organizations'', $66,614,000: Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

        contributions for international peacekeeping activities

    For an additional amount for ``Contributions for International 
Peacekeeping Activities'', $1,385,670,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018: Provided, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                             RELATED AGENCY

                    Broadcasting Board of Governors

                 international broadcasting operations

    For an additional amount for ``International Broadcasting 
Operations'', $10,700,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for ``Operating Expenses'', $98,460,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                   international disaster assistance

    For an additional amount for ``International Disaster Assistance'', 
$1,885,127,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         transition initiatives

    For an additional amount for ``Transition Initiatives'', 
$37,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                         economic support fund

    For an additional amount for ``Economic Support Fund'', 
$2,422,673,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

            assistance for europe, eurasia and central asia

    For an additional amount for ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and 
Central Asia'', $438,569,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                          Department of State

                    migration and refugee assistance

    For an additional amount for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' 
for overseas assistance to respond to refugee crises in Africa, the 
Near East, South and Central Asia, and Europe and Eurasia, 
$2,287,904,000, to remain available until expended, except that such 
funds shall not be made available for the resettlement costs of 
refugees in the United States: Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

     united states emergency refugee and migration assistance fund

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 2(c) 
of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, as amended (22 
U.S.C. 2601(c)), for overseas assistance to respond to unexpected 
emergency migration needs, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                   INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE

                          Department of State

          international narcotics control and law enforcement

    For an additional amount for ``International Narcotics Control and 
Law Enforcement'', $371,661,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2018: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

    nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining and related programs

    For an additional amount for ``Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, 
Demining and Related Programs'', $379,091,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018: Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        peacekeeping operations

    For an additional amount for ``Peacekeeping Operations'', 
$469,269,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: 
Provided further, That funds available for obligation under this 
heading in this Act may be used to pay assessed expenses of 
international peacekeeping activities in Somalia, subject to the 
regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, 
except that such expenses shall not exceed the level described in the 
final proviso under the heading ``Contributions for International 
Peacekeeping Activities'' in title I of this Act.

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                   foreign military financing program

    For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing 
Program'', $1,288,176,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018: Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       additional appropriations

    Sec. 8001.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated in this title are in addition to amounts appropriated or 
otherwise made available in this Act for fiscal year 2017.

                extension of authorities and conditions

    Sec. 8002.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act, the 
additional amounts appropriated by this title to appropriations 
accounts in this Act shall be available under the authorities and 
conditions applicable to such appropriations accounts.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 8003.  Funds appropriated by this title under the heading 
``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'', may be transferred 
to, and merged with, funds appropriated by this title in this Act under 
the headings ``International Disaster Assistance'', ``International 
Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement'', and ``Foreign Military 
Financing Program'' for assistance for countries funded under the 
heading ``Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia'': Provided, 
That the transfer authority of this section is in addition to any other 
transfer authority provided by this or any other Act, and shall be 
subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on 
Appropriations.

                              designation

    Sec. 8004.  Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded, if applicable) 
only if the President subsequently so designates all such amounts and 
transmits such designations to the Congress.

                                TITLE IX

                      ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISION

                       spending reduction account

    The amount by which the applicable allocation of new budget 
authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is $0.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2017''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 537

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5912

                          [Report No. 114-693]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, 
and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and 
                          for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 15, 2016

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
