[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5325 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.5325

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
           the fourth day of January, two thousand and sixteen


                                 An Act


 
  Making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2017, and for other 
                                purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations and 
Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2017, and Zika Response and Preparedness Act''.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
Sec. 4. Statement of appropriations.
Sec. 5. Availability of funds.
Sec. 6. Explanatory statement.

    DIVISION A--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED 
                    AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2017

Title I--Department of Defense
Title II--Department of Veterans Affairs
Title III--Related agencies
Title IV--Overseas contingency operations
Title V--General provisions

               DIVISION B--ZIKA RESPONSE AND PREPAREDNESS

Title I--Department of Health and Human Services
Title II--Department of State
Title III--General Provisions--This Division

             DIVISION C--CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2017

                    DIVISION D--RESCISSIONS OF FUNDS

SEC. 3. REFERENCES.
    Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this 
Act'' contained in any division of this Act shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of that division.
SEC. 4. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    The following sums in this Act are appropriated, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2017.
SEC. 5. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.
    Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or 
rescinded, if applicable) only if the President subsequently so 
designates all such amounts and transmits such designations to the 
Congress.
SEC. 6. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT.
    (a) The explanatory statement regarding this Act, printed in the 
Senate section of the Congressional Record on or about September 22, 
2016, by the Chairman of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, 
shall have the same effect with respect to the allocation of funds and 
implementation of divisions A through D of this Act as if it were a 
joint explanatory statement of a committee of conference.
    (b) Any reference to the ``joint explanatory statement accompanying 
this Act'' contained in division A of this Act shall be considered to 
be a reference to the explanatory statement described in subsection 
(a).

   DIVISION A--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED 
                   AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2017

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Army as currently authorized by 
law, including personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other 
personal services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and 
for construction and operation of facilities in support of the 
functions of the Commander in Chief, $513,459,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That, of this amount, not to 
exceed $98,159,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, 
architect and engineer services, and host nation support, as authorized 
by law, unless the Secretary of the Army determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps as currently authorized 
by law, including personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command 
and other personal services necessary for the purposes of this 
appropriation, $1,021,580,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021:  Provided, That, of this amount, not to exceed $88,230,000 shall 
be available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Navy 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized 
by law, $1,491,058,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  
Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $143,582,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Air Force 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available under this heading shall 
be for construction of the Joint Intelligence Analysis Complex 
Consolidation, Phase 3, at Royal Air Force Croughton, United Kingdom, 
unless authorized in an Act authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 
2017 for military construction.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and 
real property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$2,025,444,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021:  
Provided, That such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined 
by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations 
of the Department of Defense available for military construction or 
family housing as the Secretary may designate, to be merged with and to 
be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as 
the appropriation or fund to which transferred:  Provided further, That 
of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $180,775,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $232,930,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That, of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$8,729,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Director of the Army National Guard determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $143,957,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That, of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$10,462,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Director of the Air National Guard determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $68,230,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That, of the 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $7,500,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as 
authorized by law, unless the Chief of the Army Reserve determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Navy Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $38,597,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021:  Provided, That, of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$3,783,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Secretary of the Navy determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $188,950,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021:  Provided, That, of the 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $4,500,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as 
authorized by law, unless the Chief of the Air Force Reserve determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
the determination and the reasons therefor.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized by 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $177,932,000, to remain available until expended.

               Department of Defense Base Closure Account

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account, 
established by section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), $240,237,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                   Family Housing Construction, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $157,172,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $325,995,000.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, $94,011,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

    Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, 
as authorized by law, $300,915,000.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $61,352,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

          Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $274,429,000.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
operation and maintenance, leasing, and minor construction, as 
authorized by law, $59,157,000.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, 
$3,258,000, to remain available until expended, for family housing 
initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United 
States Code, providing alternative means of acquiring and improving 
military family housing and supporting facilities.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for 
construction, where cost estimates exceed $25,000, to be performed 
within the United States, except Alaska, without the specific approval 
in writing of the Secretary of Defense setting forth the reasons 
therefor.
    Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for construction 
shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for construction may 
be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department 
of Transportation, for the construction of access roads as authorized 
by section 210 of title 23, United States Code, when projects 
authorized therein are certified as important to the national defense 
by the Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to begin construction of new bases in the United States for which 
specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used for purchase of land or land easements in excess of 100 percent of 
the value as determined by the Army Corps of Engineers or the Naval 
Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) where there is a 
determination of value by a Federal court; (2) purchases negotiated by 
the Attorney General or the designee of the Attorney General; (3) where 
the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site preparation; or (3) 
install utilities for any family housing, except housing for which 
funds have been made available in annual Acts making appropriations for 
military construction.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title for minor 
construction may be used to transfer or relocate any activity from one 
base or installation to another, without prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used for the procurement of steel for any construction project or 
activity for which American steel producers, fabricators, and 
manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete for such 
steel procurement.
    Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to initiate a new installation overseas without prior notification 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated for architect and engineer contracts estimated by the 
Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan, 
in any North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded 
to United States firms or United States firms in joint venture with 
host nation firms.
    Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this title for 
military construction in the United States territories and possessions 
in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in countries bordering the 
Arabian Gulf, may be used to award any contract estimated by the 
Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor:  Provided, 
That this section shall not be applicable to contract awards for which 
the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a United States contractor 
exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a foreign 
contractor by greater than 20 percent:  Provided further, That this 
section shall not apply to contract awards for military construction on 
Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid is 
submitted by a Marshallese contractor.
    Sec. 113.  The Secretary of Defense shall inform the appropriate 
committees of both Houses of Congress, including the Committees on 
Appropriations, of plans and scope of any proposed military exercise 
involving United States personnel 30 days prior to its occurring, if 
amounts expended for construction, either temporary or permanent, are 
anticipated to exceed $100,000.
    Sec. 114.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 115.  For military construction or family housing projects 
that are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
made available to a military department or defense agency for the 
construction of military projects may be obligated for a military 
construction project or contract, or for any portion of such a project 
or contract, at any time before the end of the fourth fiscal year after 
the fiscal year for which funds for such project were made available, 
if the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from funds 
available for military construction projects; and (2) do not exceed the 
amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by which the cost 
of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 117.  Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 
and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, such additional amounts as 
may be determined by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to: 
(1) the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from 
amounts appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, 
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the 
same period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund; or 
(2) the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing 
Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for construction of military 
unaccompanied housing in ``Military Construction'' accounts, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund:  Provided, 
That appropriations made available to the Funds shall be available to 
cover the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the 
Department of Defense pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of 
chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, pertaining to alternative 
means of acquiring and improving military family housing, military 
unaccompanied housing, and supporting facilities.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118.  In addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense, amounts may be transferred from the 
Department of Defense Base Closure Account to the fund established by 
section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan 
Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for expenses associated 
with the Homeowners Assistance Program incurred under 42 U.S.C. 
3374(a)(1)(A). Any amounts transferred shall be merged with and be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 119.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this title for operation and maintenance of family housing 
shall be the exclusive source of funds for repair and maintenance of 
all family housing units, including general or flag officer quarters:  
Provided, That not more than $35,000 per unit may be spent annually for 
the maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer quarters 
without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a notification 
provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 and 2883 of 
title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress, except that an after-the-fact notification 
shall be submitted if the limitation is exceeded solely due to costs 
associated with environmental remediation that could not be reasonably 
anticipated at the time of the budget submission:  Provided further,  
That the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) is to report annually 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress all 
operation and maintenance expenditures for each individual general or 
flag officer quarters for the prior fiscal year.
    Sec. 120.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement Account 
established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of title 10, United 
States Code, are appropriated and shall be available until expended for 
the purposes specified in subsection (i)(1) of such section or until 
transferred pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such section.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 121.  During the 5-year period after appropriations available 
in this Act to the Department of Defense for military construction and 
family housing operation and maintenance and construction have expired 
for obligation, upon a determination that such appropriations will not 
be necessary for the liquidation of obligations or for making 
authorized adjustments to such appropriations for obligations incurred 
during the period of availability of such appropriations, unobligated 
balances of such appropriations may be transferred into the 
appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'', 
to be merged with and to be available for the same time period and for 
the same purposes as the appropriation to which transferred.
    Sec. 122. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available in this Act may be used by the Secretary of the 
Army to relocate a unit in the Army that--
        (1) performs a testing mission or function that is not 
    performed by any other unit in the Army and is specifically 
    stipulated in title 10, United States Code; and
        (2) is located at a military installation at which the total 
    number of civilian employees of the Department of the Army and Army 
    contractor personnel employed exceeds 10 percent of the total 
    number of members of the regular and reserve components of the Army 
    assigned to the installation.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of 
the Army certifies to the congressional defense committees that in 
proposing the relocation of the unit of the Army, the Secretary 
complied with Army Regulation 5-10 relating to the policy, procedures, 
and responsibilities for Army stationing actions.
    Sec. 123.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in an 
account funded under the headings in this title may be transferred 
among projects and activities within the account in accordance with the 
reprogramming guidelines for military construction and family housing 
construction contained in Department of Defense Financial Management 
Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 7, of March 2011, as in effect 
on the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 124.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated or expended for planning and design and construction of 
projects at Arlington National Cemetery.
    Sec. 125.  For an additional amount for the accounts and in the 
amounts specified, to remain available until September 30, 2021:
        ``Military Construction, Army'', $40,500,000;
        ``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', $227,099,000;
        ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $149,500,000;
        ``Military Construction, Army National Guard'', $67,500,000;
        ``Military Construction, Air National Guard'', $11,000,000;
        ``Military Construction, Army Reserve'', $30,000,000:
  Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry out 
construction projects identified in the respective military 
department's unfunded priority list for fiscal year 2017 submitted to 
Congress by the Secretary of Defense:  Provided further, That such 
projects are subject to authorization prior to obligation and 
expenditure of funds to carry out construction:  Provided further, That 
not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the military department concerned, or his or her designee, shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an 
expenditure plan for funds provided under this section.
    Sec. 126.  For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
Navy and Marine Corps'', $89,400,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021:  Provided, That, such funds may only be obligated 
to carry out construction projects identified by the Department of the 
Navy in its June 8, 2016, unfunded priority list submission to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress detailing 
unfunded reprogramming and emergency construction requirements:  
Provided further, That, not later than 30 days after enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Navy, or his or her designee, shall submit to 
the Committees an expenditure plan for funds provided under this 
section.

                         (rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 127.  Of the unobligated balances available to the Department 
of Defense from prior appropriation Acts, the following funds are 
hereby rescinded from the following accounts in the amounts specified:
        ``Military Construction, Army'', $29,602,000;
        ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $51,460,000;
        ``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', $171,600,000, of which 
    $30,000,000 are to be derived from amounts made available for 
    Missile Defense Agency planning and design; and
        ``North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
    Program'', $30,000,000:
  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism or as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 128.  Of the unobligated balances made available in prior 
appropriation Acts for the fund established in section 1013(d) of the 
Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 (42 
U.S.C. 3374) (other than appropriations designated by law as being for 
contingency operations directly related to the global war on terrorism 
or as an emergency requirement), $25,000,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 129.  For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
defense committees'' means the Committees on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 130.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out the closure or realignment of the United States Naval 
Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    Sec. 131.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act 
may be used to consolidate or relocate any element of a United States 
Air Force Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron 
Engineer (RED HORSE) outside of the United States until the Secretary 
of the Air Force (1) completes an analysis and comparison of the cost 
and infrastructure investment required to consolidate or relocate a RED 
HORSE squadron outside of the United States versus within the United 
States; (2) provides to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress (``the Committees'') a report detailing the findings of the 
cost analysis; and (3) certifies in writing to the Committees that the 
preferred site for the consolidation or relocation yields the greatest 
savings for the Air Force:  Provided, That the term ``United States'' 
in this section does not include any territory or possession of the 
United States.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized 
by section 107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, 
United States Code; pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as 
authorized by chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code; and burial benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement Program 
for Survivors, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-
service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial 
life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of title IV of 
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et seq.) and 
for other benefits as authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, 
and chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$90,119,449,000, to remain available until expended and to become 
available on October 1, 2017:  Provided, That not to exceed $17,224,000 
of the amount made available for fiscal year 2018 under this heading 
shall be reimbursed to ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', and ``Information Technology Systems'' for necessary 
expenses in implementing the provisions of chapters 51, 53, and 55 of 
title 38, United States Code, the funding source for which is 
specifically provided as the ``Compensation and Pensions'' 
appropriation:  Provided further, That such sums as may be earned on an 
actual qualifying patient basis, shall be reimbursed to ``Medical Care 
Collections Fund'' to augment the funding of individual medical 
facilities for nursing home care provided to pensioners as authorized.

                         readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 
36, 39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$13,708,648,000, to remain available until expended and to become 
available on October 1, 2017:  Provided, That expenses for 
rehabilitation program services and assistance which the Secretary is 
authorized to provide under subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, 
United States Code, other than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) 
of that subsection, shall be charged to this account.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by chapters 19 and 21, 
title 38, United States Code, $124,504,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $107,899,000 shall become available on October 1, 
2017.

                 veterans housing benefit program fund

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by subchapters I 
through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That, during fiscal year 2017, within the resources 
available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for direct loans 
are authorized for specially adapted housing loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $198,856,000.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $36,000, as authorized by chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$2,517,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $389,000, which may be paid to the appropriation 
for ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, United States 
Code, $1,163,000.

      general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration

    For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General Services Administration 
for security guard services, and reimbursement of the Department of 
Defense for the cost of overseas employee mail, $2,856,160,000:  
Provided, That expenses for services and assistance authorized under 
paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of section 3104(a) of title 38, 
United States Code, that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines 
are necessary to enable entitled veterans: (1) to the maximum extent 
feasible, to become employable and to obtain and maintain suitable 
employment; or (2) to achieve maximum independence in daily living, 
shall be charged to this account:  Provided further, That, of the funds 
made available under this heading, not to exceed 5 percent shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

    For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by law, 
inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and veterans described in section 
1705(a) of title 38, United States Code, including care and treatment 
in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department, and 
including medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food 
services, and salaries and expenses of healthcare employees hired under 
title 38, United States Code, aid to State homes as authorized by 
section 1741 of title 38, United States Code, assistance and support 
services for caregivers as authorized by section 1720G of title 38, 
United States Code, loan repayments authorized by section 604 of the 
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 
111-163; 124 Stat. 1174; 38 U.S.C. 7681 note), and hospital care and 
medical services authorized by section 1787 of title 38, United States 
Code; $1,078,993,000, which shall be in addition to funds previously 
appropriated under this heading that become available on October 1, 
2016; and, in addition, $44,886,554,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
become available on October 1, 2017, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided, That, of the amount made available on 
October 1, 2017, under this heading, $1,400,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2019:  Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall establish a priority for the provision of medical 
treatment for veterans who have service-connected disabilities, lower 
income, or have special needs:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
give priority funding for the provision of basic medical benefits to 
veterans in enrollment priority groups 1 through 6:  Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs may authorize the dispensing of prescription drugs 
from Veterans Health Administration facilities to enrolled veterans 
with privately written prescriptions based on requirements established 
by the Secretary:  Provided further, That the implementation of the 
program described in the previous proviso shall incur no additional 
cost to the Department of Veterans Affairs:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that sufficient amounts 
appropriated under this heading for medical supplies and equipment are 
available for the acquisition of prosthetics designed specifically for 
female veterans:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall provide access to therapeutic listening devices to 
veterans struggling with mental health related problems, substance 
abuse, or traumatic brain injury.

                         medical community care

    For necessary expenses for furnishing health care to individuals 
pursuant to chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, at non-
Department facilities, $7,246,181,000, plus reimbursements, of which 
$2,000,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2020; and, in 
addition, $9,409,118,000 shall become available on October 1, 2017, and 
shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of the 
amount made available on October 1, 2017, $1,500,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

                     medical support and compliance

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
capital policy activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the Department as 
authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, and the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.), 
$6,654,480,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 
1, 2017, and shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That, of the amount made available on October 1, 2017, under 
this heading, $100,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2019.

                           medical facilities

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other necessary 
facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; for administrative 
expenses in support of planning, design, project management, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction, and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; 
for oversight, engineering, and architectural activities not charged to 
project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, or providing 
facilities in the several hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of 
the Department, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by 
the hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; for leases 
of facilities; and for laundry services; $247,668,000, which shall be 
in addition to funds previously appropriated under this heading that 
become available on October 1, 2016; and, in addition, $5,434,880,000, 
plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 1, 2017, and 
shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That, of 
the amount made available on October 1, 2017, under this heading, 
$250,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by chapter 73 of 
title 38, United States Code, $675,366,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that sufficient amounts 
appropriated under this heading are available for prosthetic research 
specifically for female veterans, and for toxic exposure research.

                    National Cemetery Administration

    For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery Administration for 
operations and maintenance, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of one passenger motor vehicle for use in cemeterial 
operations; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, alteration or 
improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the National 
Cemetery Administration, $286,193,000, of which not to exceed 10 
percent shall remain available until September 30, 2018.

                      Departmental Administration

                         general administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including administrative expenses 
in support of Department-wide capital planning, management and policy 
activities, uniforms, or allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, $345,391,000, of which not to exceed 5 percent 
shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That funds 
provided under this heading may be transferred to ``General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

                       board of veterans appeals

    For necessary operating expenses of the Board of Veterans Appeals, 
$156,096,000, of which not to exceed 10 percent shall remain available 
until September 30, 2018.

                     information technology systems

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for information technology systems and 
telecommunications support, including developmental information systems 
and operational information systems; for pay and associated costs; and 
for the capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, 
including management and related contractual costs of said 
acquisitions, including contractual costs associated with operations 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$4,278,259,000, plus reimbursements:  Provided, That $1,272,548,000 
shall be for pay and associated costs, of which not to exceed 
$37,100,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided 
further, That $2,534,442,000 shall be for operations and maintenance, 
of which not to exceed $180,200,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018:  Provided further, That $471,269,000 shall be for 
information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement, and shall remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided further, That amounts made available for information 
technology systems development, modernization, and enhancement may not 
be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or the 
Chief Information Officer of the Department of Veterans Affairs submits 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
certification of the amounts, in parts or in full, to be obligated and 
expended for each development project:  Provided further, That amounts 
made available for salaries and expenses, operations and maintenance, 
and information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement may be transferred among the three subaccounts after the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and an approval is issued:  Provided further, That amounts 
made available for the ``Information Technology Systems'' account for 
development, modernization, and enhancement may be transferred among 
projects or to newly defined projects:  Provided further, That no 
project may be increased or decreased by more than $1,000,000 of cost 
prior to submitting a request to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress to make the transfer and an approval is issued, 
or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed:  Provided 
further, That funds under this heading may be used by the Interagency 
Program Office through the Department of Veterans Affairs to define 
data standards, code sets, and value sets used to enable 
interoperability:  Provided further, That of the funds made available 
for information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement for VistA Evolution or any successor program, not more than 
25 percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs:
        (1) submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
    of Congress the VistA Evolution Business Case and supporting 
    documents regarding continuation of VistA Evolution or alternatives 
    to VistA Evolution, including an analysis of necessary or desired 
    capabilities, technical and security requirements, the plan for 
    modernizing the platform framework, and all associated costs;
        (2) submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
    of Congress, and such Committees approve, the following: a report 
    that describes a strategic plan for VistA Evolution, or any 
    successor program, and the associated implementation plan including 
    metrics and timelines; a master schedule and lifecycle cost 
    estimate for VistA Evolution or any successor; and an 
    implementation plan for the transition from the Project Management 
    Accountability System to a new project delivery framework, the 
    Veteran-focused Integration Process, that includes the methodology 
    by which projects will be tracked, progress measured, and 
    deliverables evaluated;
        (3) submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
    of Congress a report outlining the strategic plan to reach 
    interoperability with private sector healthcare providers, the 
    timeline for reaching ``meaningful use'' as defined by the Office 
    of National Coordinator for Health Information Technology for each 
    data domain covered under the VistA Evolution program, and the 
    extent to which the Department of Veterans Affairs leverages the 
    State Health Information Exchanges to share health data with 
    private sector providers;
        (4) submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
    of Congress, and such Committees approve, the following: a report 
    that describes the extent to which VistA Evolution, or any 
    successor program, maximizes the use of commercially available 
    software used by DoD and the private sector, requires an open 
    architecture that leverages best practices and rapidly adapts to 
    technologies produced by the private sector, enhances full 
    interoperability between the VA and DoD and between VA and the 
    private sector, and ensures the security of personally identifiable 
    information of veterans and beneficiaries; and
        (5) certifies in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of 
    both Houses of Congress that the Department of Veterans Affairs has 
    met the requirements contained in the National Defense 
    Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66) which 
    require that electronic health record systems of the Department of 
    Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs have reached 
    interoperability, comply with national standards and architectural 
    requirements identified by the DoD/VA Interagency Program Office in 
    collaboration with the Office of National Coordinator for Health 
    Information Technology:
  Provided further, That the funds made available under this heading 
for information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement, shall be for the projects, and in the amounts, specified 
under this heading in the joint explanatory statement accompanying this 
Act.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, to 
include information technology, in carrying out the provisions of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $160,106,000, of which 
not to exceed 10 percent shall remain available until September 30, 
2018.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
architectural and engineering services, construction management 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
more than the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, 
United States Code, or where funds for a project were made available in 
a previous major project appropriation, $528,110,000, of which 
$478,110,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021, and of 
which $50,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That except for advance planning activities, including needs 
assessments which may or may not lead to capital investments, and other 
capital asset management related activities, including portfolio 
development and management activities, and investment strategy studies 
funded through the advance planning fund and the planning and design 
activities funded through the design fund, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and salaries and 
associated costs of the resident engineers who oversee those capital 
investments funded through this account and contracting officers who 
manage specific major construction projects, and funds provided for the 
purchase, security, and maintenance of land for the National Cemetery 
Administration through the land acquisition line item, none of the 
funds made available under this heading shall be used for any project 
that has not been notified to Congress through the budgetary process or 
that has not been approved by the Congress through statute, joint 
resolution, or in the explanatory statement accompanying such Act and 
presented to the President at the time of enrollment:  Provided 
further, That funds made available under this heading for fiscal year 
2017, for each approved project shall be obligated: (1) by the awarding 
of a construction documents contract by September 30, 2017; and (2) by 
the awarding of a construction contract by September 30, 2018:  
Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall promptly 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
written report on any approved major construction project for which 
obligations are not incurred within the time limitations established 
above:  Provided further, That, of the amount made available under this 
heading, $222,620,000 for Veterans Health Administration major 
construction projects shall not be available until the Department of 
Veterans Affairs--
        (1) enters into an agreement with an appropriate non-Department 
    of Veterans Affairs Federal entity to serve as the design and/or 
    construction agent for any Veterans Health Administration major 
    construction project with a Total Estimated Cost of $100,000,000 or 
    above by providing full project management services, including 
    management of the project design, acquisition, construction, and 
    contract changes, consistent with section 502 of Public Law 114-58; 
    and
        (2) certifies in writing that such an agreement is executed and 
    intended to minimize or prevent subsequent major construction 
    project cost overruns and provides a copy of the agreement entered 
    into and any required supplementary information to the Committees 
    on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including planning and 
assessments of needs which may lead to capital investments, 
architectural and engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period 
services costs associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and storm 
drainage system construction costs, and site acquisition, or for any of 
the purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of 
title 38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, where the 
estimated cost of a project is equal to or less than the amount set 
forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States Code, 
$372,069,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, along with 
unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, Minor Projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project where 
the estimated cost is equal to or less than the amount set forth in 
such section:  Provided, That funds made available under this heading 
shall be for: (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical facilities under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department which are necessary 
because of loss or damage caused by any natural disaster or 
catastrophe; and (2) temporary measures necessary to prevent or to 
minimize further loss by such causes.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify, or alter 
existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary facilities in State 
homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by sections 8131 
through 8137 of title 38, United States Code, $90,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             grants for construction of veterans cemeteries

    For grants to assist States and tribal organizations in 
establishing, expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as authorized 
by section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, $45,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2017 for 
``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' may be transferred as necessary 
to any other of the mentioned appropriations:  Provided, That, before a 
transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and such Committees issue 
an approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2017, in this or any other Act, under the 
``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'' accounts may be transferred 
among the accounts:  Provided, That any transfers among the ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', and ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or less of the total amount 
appropriated to the account in this or any other Act may take place 
subject to notification from the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the amount 
and purpose of the transfer:  Provided further, That any transfers 
among the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', and 
``Medical Support and Compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 percent, or 
exceeding the cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may take place 
only after the Secretary requests from the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an 
approval is issued:  Provided further, That any transfers to or from 
the ``Medical Facilities'' account may take place only after the 
Secretary requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is 
issued.
    Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for services authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; lease of 
a facility or land or both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
appropriations for ``Construction, Major Projects'', and 
``Construction, Minor Projects'') shall be available for the purchase 
of any site for or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 205.  No appropriations in this title shall be available for 
hospitalization or examination of any persons (except beneficiaries 
entitled to such hospitalization or examination under the laws 
providing such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such 
treatment under sections 7901 through 7904 of title 5, United States 
Code, or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement of the 
cost of such hospitalization or examination is made to the ``Medical 
Services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for 
``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' shall be available for payment 
of prior year accrued obligations required to be recorded by law 
against the corresponding prior year accounts within the last quarter 
of fiscal year 2016.
    Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be 
available to pay prior year obligations of corresponding prior year 
appropriations accounts resulting from sections 3328(a), 3334, and 
3712(a) of title 31, United States Code, except that if such 
obligations are from trust fund accounts they shall be payable only 
from ``Compensation and Pensions''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from the 
National Service Life Insurance Fund under section 1920 of title 38, 
United States Code, the Veterans' Special Life Insurance Fund under 
section 1923 of title 38, United States Code, and the United States 
Government Life Insurance Fund under section 1955 of title 38, United 
States Code, reimburse the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans 
Benefits Administration'' and ``Information Technology Systems'' 
accounts for the cost of administration of the insurance programs 
financed through those accounts:  Provided, That reimbursement shall be 
made only from the surplus earnings accumulated in such an insurance 
program during fiscal year 2017 that are available for dividends in 
that program after claims have been paid and actuarially determined 
reserves have been set aside:  Provided further, That if the cost of 
administration of such an insurance program exceeds the amount of 
surplus earnings accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be 
made only to the extent of such surplus earnings:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for 
fiscal year 2017 which is properly allocable to the provision of each 
such insurance program and to the provision of any total disability 
income insurance included in that insurance program.
    Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease proceeds to 
reimburse an account for expenses incurred by that account during a 
prior fiscal year for providing enhanced-use lease services, may be 
obligated during the fiscal year in which the proceeds are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for salaries and 
other administrative expenses shall also be available to reimburse the 
Office of Resolution Management of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
and the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication 
under section 319 of title 38, United States Code, for all services 
provided at rates which will recover actual costs but not to exceed 
$47,668,000 for the Office of Resolution Management and $3,932,000 for 
the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication:  
Provided, That payments may be made in advance for services to be 
furnished based on estimated costs:  Provided further, That amounts 
received shall be credited to the ``General Administration'' and 
``Information Technology Systems'' accounts for use by the office that 
provided the service.
    Sec. 211.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall be 
available for hospital care, nursing home care, or medical services 
provided to any person under chapter 17 of title 38, United States 
Code, for a non-service-connected disability described in section 
1729(a)(2) of such title, unless that person has disclosed to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may 
require, current, accurate third-party reimbursement information for 
purposes of section 1729 of such title:  Provided, That the Secretary 
may recover, in the same manner as any other debt due the United 
States, the reasonable charges for such care or services from any 
person who does not make such disclosure as required:  Provided 
further, That any amounts so recovered for care or services provided in 
a prior fiscal year may be obligated by the Secretary during the fiscal 
year in which amounts are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, proceeds or 
revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing activities (including 
disposal) may be deposited into the ``Construction, Major Projects'' 
and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts and be used for 
construction (including site acquisition and disposition), alterations, 
and improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such sums as realized 
are in addition to the amount provided for in ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects''.
    Sec. 213.  Amounts made available under ``Medical Services'' are 
available--
        (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
    equipment; and
        (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and other expenses 
    incidental to funerals and burials for beneficiaries receiving care 
    in the Department.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 214.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, may be transferred to the ``Medical Services'' and ``Medical 
Community Care'' accounts to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 215.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter into 
agreements with Federally Qualified Health Centers in the State of 
Alaska and Indian tribes and tribal organizations which are party to 
the Alaska Native Health Compact with the Indian Health Service, to 
provide healthcare, including behavioral health and dental care, to 
veterans in rural Alaska. The Secretary shall require participating 
veterans and facilities to comply with all appropriate rules and 
regulations, as established by the Secretary. The term ``rural Alaska'' 
shall mean those lands which are not within the boundaries of the 
municipality of Anchorage or the Fairbanks North Star Borough.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 216.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 8118 of title 
38, United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts, to remain 
available until expended for the purposes of these accounts.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 217.  Of the amounts appropriated in title II of division J of 
Public Law 114-113 under the heading ``Medical Services'' which become 
available on October 1, 2016, $7,246,181,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 218.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal 
quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report on the 
financial status of the Department of Veterans Affairs for the 
preceding quarter:  Provided, That, at a minimum, the report shall 
include the direction contained in the paragraph entitled ``Quarterly 
reporting'', under the heading ``General Administration'' in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying this Act.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 219.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', 
``Medical Facilities'', ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', ``General Administration'', and ``National Cemetery 
Administration'' accounts for fiscal year 2017 may be transferred to or 
from the ``Information Technology Systems'' account:  Provided, That 
such transfers may not result in a more than 10 percent aggregate 
increase in the total amount made available by this Act for the 
``Information Technology Systems'' account:  Provided further, That, 
before a transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.
    Sec. 220.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs may be used in a manner that is inconsistent with: (1) section 
842 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the 
Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2506); or (2) 
section 8110(a)(5) of title 38, United States Code.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 221.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2017 for ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', 
``Medical Facilities'', ``Construction, Minor Projects'', and 
``Information Technology Systems'', up to $274,731,000, plus 
reimbursements, may be transferred to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, 
established by section 1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be 
used for operation of the facilities designated as combined Federal 
medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, That additional funds may be 
transferred from accounts designated in this section to the Joint 
Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That section 223 of title II of division J 
of Public Law 114-113 is repealed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 222.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs which become available on October 1, 2017, for 
``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', up to $280,802,000, plus 
reimbursements, may be transferred to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, 
established by section 1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be 
used for operation of the facilities designated as combined Federal 
medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, That additional funds may be 
transferred from accounts designated in this section to the Joint 
Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 223.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, for healthcare provided at facilities designated as combined 
Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for transfer 
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571); and (2) for operations of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 224.  Of the amounts available in this title for ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', a minimum of $15,000,000 
shall be transferred to the DOD-VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, 
as authorized by section 8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, to 
remain available until expended, for any purpose authorized by section 
8111 of title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 225.  None of the funds available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, in this or any other Act, may be used to replace the 
current system by which the Veterans Integrated Service Networks select 
and contract for diabetes monitoring supplies and equipment.
    Sec. 226.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of all bid 
savings in a major construction project that total at least $5,000,000, 
or 5 percent of the programmed amount of the project, whichever is 
less:  Provided, That such notification shall occur within 14 days of a 
contract identifying the programmed amount:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress 14 days prior to the obligation of such bid savings and 
shall describe the anticipated use of such savings.
    Sec. 227.  None of the funds made available for ``Construction, 
Major Projects'' may be used for a project in excess of the scope 
specified for that project in the original justification data provided 
to the Congress as part of the request for appropriations unless the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs receives approval from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 228.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal 
quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a quarterly 
report containing performance measures and data from each Veterans 
Benefits Administration Regional Office:  Provided, That, at a minimum, 
the report shall include the direction contained in the section 
entitled ``Disability claims backlog'', under the heading ``General 
Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' in the joint 
explanatory statement accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 229.  Of the funds provided to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2017 for ``Medical Support and Compliance'' a 
maximum of $40,000,000 may be obligated from the ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'' account for the VistA Evolution and electronic health 
record interoperability projects:  Provided, That funds in addition to 
these amounts may be obligated for the VistA Evolution and electronic 
health record interoperability projects upon written notification by 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 230.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide written 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress 15 days prior to organizational changes which result in the 
transfer of 25 or more full-time equivalents from one organizational 
unit of the Department of Veterans Affairs to another.
    Sec. 231.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide on a 
quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress notification of any single national outreach and awareness 
marketing campaign in which obligations exceed $2,000,000.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 232.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, upon determination 
that such action is necessary to address needs of the Veterans Health 
Administration, may transfer to the ``Medical Services'' account any 
discretionary appropriations made available for fiscal year 2017 in 
this title (except appropriations made to the ``General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' account) or any 
discretionary unobligated balances within the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, including those appropriated for fiscal year 2017, that were 
provided in advance by appropriations Acts:  Provided, That transfers 
shall be made only with the approval of the Office of Management and 
Budget:  Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this 
section is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law: 
 Provided further, That no amounts may be transferred from amounts that 
were designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985:  Provided further, That such 
authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher priority items, 
based on emergent healthcare requirements, than those for which 
originally appropriated and in no case where the item for which funds 
are requested has been denied by Congress:  Provided further, That, 
upon determination that all or part of the funds transferred from an 
appropriation are not necessary, such amounts may be transferred back 
to that appropriation and shall be available for the same purposes as 
originally appropriated:  Provided further, That before a transfer may 
take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority 
to make the transfer and receive approval of that request.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 233.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2017, under the ``Board of Veterans Appeals'' 
and the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'' accounts may be transferred between such accounts:  
Provided, That before a transfer may take place, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and receive 
approval of that request.
    Sec. 234.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not reprogram 
funds among major construction projects or programs if such instance of 
reprogramming will exceed $5,000,000, unless such reprogramming is 
approved by the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 235.  Of the unobligated balances available within the ``DOD-
VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund'', $40,000,000 are hereby 
rescinded.

                         (rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 236.  Of the discretionary funds made available in Public Law 
114-113 for the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2017, 
$134,000,000 are rescinded from ``Medical Services'', $26,000,000 are 
rescinded from ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and $9,000,000 are 
rescinded from ``Medical Facilities''.
    Sec. 237.  The amounts otherwise made available by this Act for the 
following accounts of the Department of Veterans Affairs are hereby 
reduced by the following amounts:
        (1) ``Veterans Health Administration--Medical and Prosthetic 
    Research'', $2,000,000.
        (2) ``Departmental Administration--Board of Veterans Appeals'', 
    $500,000.
        (3) ``Veterans Benefits Administration--General Operating 
    Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', $12,000,000.
        (4) ``Departmental Administration--Information Technology 
    Systems'', $8,000,000.
        (5) ``Departmental Administration--Office of Inspector 
    General'', $500,000.
    Sec. 238.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the 
toll-free suicide hotline under section 1720F(h) of title 38, United 
States Code--
        (1) provides to individuals who contact the hotline immediate 
    assistance from a trained professional; and
        (2) adheres to all requirements of the American Association of 
    Suicidology.
    Sec. 239. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall treat a 
marriage and family therapist described in subsection (b) as qualified 
to serve as a marriage and family therapist in the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, regardless of any requirements established by the 
Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education.
    (b) A marriage and family therapist described in this subsection is 
a therapist who meets each of the following criteria:
        (1) Has a masters or higher degree in marriage and family 
    therapy, or a related field, from a regionally accredited 
    institution.
        (2) Is licensed as a marriage and family therapist in a State 
    (as defined in section 101(20) of title 38, United States Code) and 
    possesses the highest level of licensure offered from the State.
        (3) Has passed the Association of Marital and Family Therapy 
    Regulatory Board Examination in Marital and Family Therapy or a 
    related examination for licensure administered by a State (as so 
    defined).
    Sec. 240.  None of the funds in this or any other Act may be used 
to close Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals, domiciliaries, 
or clinics, conduct an environmental assessment, or to diminish 
healthcare services at existing Veterans Health Administration medical 
facilities located in Veterans Integrated Service Network 23 as part of 
a planned realignment of VA services until the Secretary provides to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report 
including the following elements:
        (1) a national realignment strategy that includes a detailed 
    description of realignment plans within each Veterans Integrated 
    Service Network (VISN), including an updated Long Range Capital 
    Plan to implement realignment requirements;
        (2) an explanation of the process by which those plans were 
    developed and coordinated within each VISN;
        (3) a cost vs. benefit analysis of each planned realignment, 
    including the cost of replacing Veterans Health Administration 
    services with contract care or other outsourced services;
        (4) an analysis of how any such planned realignment of services 
    will impact access to care for veterans living in rural or highly 
    rural areas, including travel distances and transportation costs to 
    access a VA medical facility and availability of local specialty 
    and primary care;
        (5) an inventory of VA buildings with historic designation and 
    the methodology used to determine the buildings' condition and 
    utilization;
        (6) a description of how any realignment will be consistent 
    with requirements under the National Historic Preservation Act; and
        (7) consideration given for reuse of historic buildings within 
    newly identified realignment requirements:  Provided, That, this 
    provision shall not apply to capital projects in VISN 23, or any 
    other VISN, which have been authorized or approved by Congress.
    Sec. 241.  None of the funds appropriated in this or prior 
appropriations Acts or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs may be used to transfer any amounts from the Filipino 
Veterans Equity Compensation Fund to any other account within the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 242.  Paragraph (3) of section 403(a) of the Veterans' Mental 
Health and Other Care Improvements Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-387; 38 
U.S.C. 1703 note) is amended to read as follows:
        ``(3) Duration.--A veteran may receive health services under 
    this section during the period beginning on the date specified in 
    paragraph (2) and ending on September 30, 2017.''.
    Sec. 243. (a) Section 1722A(a) of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Paragraph (1) does not apply to opioid antagonists 
    furnished under this chapter to a veteran who is at high risk for 
    overdose of a specific medication or substance in order to reverse 
    the effect of such an overdose.''.
    (b) Section 1710(g)(3) of such title is amended--
        (1) by striking ``with respect to home health services'' and 
    inserting ``with respect to the following:''
            ``(A) Home health services''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(B) Education on the use of opioid antagonists to reverse 
        the effects of overdoses of specific medications or 
        substances.''.
    Sec. 244.  Section 312 of title 38, United States Code, is amended 
in subsection (c)(1) by striking the phrase ``that makes a 
recommendation or otherwise suggests corrective action,''.
    Sec. 245.  Of the funds provided to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for each of fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year 2018 for ``Medical 
Services'', funds may be used in each year to carry out and expand the 
child care program authorized by section 205 of Public Law 111-163, 
notwithstanding subsection (e) of such section.
    Sec. 246.  Section 5701(l) of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall''.

                   VA Patient Protection Act of 2016

    Sec. 247. (a) Procedure and Administration.--
    (1) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subchapter:

               ``SUBCHAPTER II--WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINTS

``Sec. 731. Whistleblower complaint defined
    ``In this subchapter, the term `whistleblower complaint' means a 
complaint by an employee of the Department disclosing, or assisting 
another employee to disclose, a potential violation of any law, rule, 
or regulation, or gross mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of 
authority, or substantial and specific danger to public health and 
safety.
``Sec. 732. Treatment of whistleblower complaints
    ``(a) Filing.--(1) In addition to any other method established by 
law in which an employee may file a whistleblower complaint, an 
employee of the Department may file a whistleblower complaint in 
accordance with subsection (g) with a supervisor of the employee.
    ``(2) Except as provided by subsection (d)(1), in making a 
whistleblower complaint under paragraph (1), an employee shall file the 
initial complaint with the immediate supervisor of the employee.
    ``(b) Notification.--(1)(A) Not later than four business days after 
the date on which a supervisor receives a whistleblower complaint by an 
employee under this section, the supervisor shall notify, in writing, 
the employee of whether the supervisor determines that there is a 
reasonable likelihood that the complaint discloses a violation of any 
law, rule, or regulation, or gross mismanagement, gross waste of funds, 
abuse of authority, or substantial and specific danger to public health 
and safety.
    ``(B) The supervisor shall retain written documentation regarding 
the whistleblower complaint and shall submit to the next-level 
supervisor and the central whistleblower office described in subsection 
(h) a written report on the complaint.
    ``(2)(A) On a monthly basis, the supervisor shall submit to the 
appropriate director or other official who is superior to the 
supervisor a written report that includes the number of whistleblower 
complaints received by the supervisor under this section during the 
month covered by the report, the disposition of such complaints, and 
any actions taken because of such complaints pursuant to subsection 
(c).
    ``(B) In the case in which such a director or official carries out 
this paragraph, the director or official shall submit such monthly 
report to the supervisor of the director or official and to the central 
whistleblower office described in subsection (h).
    ``(c) Positive Determination.--If a supervisor makes a positive 
determination under subsection (b)(1) regarding a whistleblower 
complaint of an employee, the supervisor shall include in the 
notification to the employee under such subsection the specific actions 
that the supervisor will take to address the complaint.
    ``(d) Filing Complaint With Next-Level Supervisors.--(1) If any 
circumstance described in paragraph (3) is met, an employee may file a 
whistleblower complaint in accordance with subsection (g) with the 
next-level supervisor who shall treat such complaint in accordance with 
this section.
    ``(2) An employee may file a whistleblower complaint with the 
Secretary if the employee has filed the whistleblower complaint to each 
level of supervisors between the employee and the Secretary in 
accordance with paragraph (1).
    ``(3) A circumstance described in this paragraph is any of the 
following circumstances:
        ``(A) A supervisor does not make a timely determination under 
    subsection (b)(1) regarding a whistleblower complaint.
        ``(B) The employee who made a whistleblower complaint 
    determines that the supervisor did not adequately address the 
    complaint pursuant to subsection (c).
        ``(C) The immediate supervisor of the employee is the basis of 
    the whistleblower complaint.
    ``(e) Transfer of Employee Who Files Whistleblower Complaint.--If a 
supervisor makes a positive determination under subsection (b)(1) 
regarding a whistleblower complaint filed by an employee, the Secretary 
shall--
        ``(1) inform the employee of the ability to volunteer for a 
    transfer in accordance with section 3352 of title 5; and
        ``(2) give preference to the employee for such a transfer in 
    accordance with such section.
    ``(f) Prohibition on Exemption.--The Secretary may not exempt any 
employee of the Department from being covered by this section.
    ``(g) Whistleblower Complaint Form.--(1) A whistleblower complaint 
filed by an employee under subsection (a) or (d) shall consist of the 
form described in paragraph (2) and any supporting materials or 
documentation the employee determines necessary.
    ``(2) The form described in this paragraph is a form developed by 
the Secretary, in consultation with the Special Counsel, that includes 
the following:
        ``(A) An explanation of the purpose of the whistleblower 
    complaint form.
        ``(B) Instructions for filing a whistleblower complaint as 
    described in this section.
        ``(C) An explanation that filing a whistleblower complaint 
    under this section does not preclude the employee from any other 
    method established by law in which an employee may file a 
    whistleblower complaint.
        ``(D) A statement directing the employee to information 
    accessible on the Internet website of the Department as described 
    in section 735(d).
        ``(E) Fields for the employee to provide--
            ``(i) the date that the form is submitted;
            ``(ii) the name of the employee;
            ``(iii) the contact information of the employee;
            ``(iv) a summary of the whistleblower complaint (including 
        the option to append supporting documents pursuant to paragraph 
        (1)); and
            ``(v) proposed solutions to the complaint.
        ``(F) Any other information or fields that the Secretary 
    determines appropriate.
    ``(3) The Secretary, in consultation with the Special Counsel, 
shall develop the form described in paragraph (2) by not later than 60 
days after the date of the enactment of this section.
    ``(h) Central Whistleblower Office.--(1) The Secretary shall ensure 
that the central whistleblower office--
        ``(A) is not an element of the Office of the General Counsel;
        ``(B) is not headed by an official who reports to the General 
    Counsel;
        ``(C) does not provide, or receive from, the General Counsel 
    any information regarding a whistleblower complaint except pursuant 
    to an action regarding the complaint before an administrative body 
    or court; and
        ``(D) does not provide advice to the General Counsel.
    ``(2) The central whistleblower office shall be responsible for 
investigating all whistleblower complaints of the Department, 
regardless of whether such complaints are made by or against an 
employee who is not a member of the Senior Executive Service.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall ensure that the central whistleblower 
office maintains a toll-free hotline to anonymously receive 
whistleblower complaints.
    ``(4) The Secretary shall ensure that the central whistleblower 
office has such staff and resources as the Secretary considers 
necessary to carry out the functions of the central whistleblower 
office.
    ``(5) In this subsection, the term `central whistleblower office' 
means the Office of Accountability Review or a successor office that is 
established or designated by the Secretary to investigate whistleblower 
complaints filed under this section or any other method established by 
law.
``Sec. 733. Adverse actions against supervisory employees who commit 
   prohibited personnel actions relating to whistleblower complaints
    ``(a) In General.--(1) In accordance with paragraph (2), the 
Secretary shall carry out the following adverse actions against 
supervisory employees (as defined in section 7103(a) of title 5) whom 
the Secretary, an administrative judge, the Merit Systems Protection 
Board, the Office of Special Counsel, an adjudicating body provided 
under a union contract, a Federal judge, or the Inspector General of 
the Department determines committed a prohibited personnel action 
described in subsection (c):
        ``(A) With respect to the first offense, an adverse action that 
    is not less than a 12-day suspension and not more than removal.
        ``(B) With respect to the second offense, removal.
    ``(2)(A) An employee against whom an adverse action under paragraph 
(1) is proposed is entitled to written notice.
    ``(B)(i) An employee who is notified under subparagraph (A) of 
being the subject of a proposed adverse action under paragraph (1) is 
entitled to 14 days following such notification to answer and furnish 
evidence in support of the answer.
    ``(ii) If the employee does not furnish any such evidence as 
described in clause (i) or if the Secretary determines that such 
evidence is not sufficient to reverse the determination to propose the 
adverse action, the Secretary shall carry out the adverse action 
following such 14-day period.
    ``(C) Paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) of section 7513 of 
title 5, subsection (c) of such section, paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
subsection (b) of section 7543 of such title, and subsection (c) of 
such section shall not apply with respect to an adverse action carried 
out under paragraph (1).
    ``(b) Limitation on Other Adverse Actions.--With respect to a 
prohibited personnel action described in subsection (c), if the 
Secretary carries out an adverse action against a supervisory employee, 
the Secretary may carry out an additional adverse action under this 
section based on the same prohibited personnel action if the total 
severity of the adverse actions do not exceed the level specified in 
subsection (a).
    ``(c) Prohibited Personnel Action Described.--A prohibited 
personnel action described in this subsection is any of the following 
actions:
        ``(1) Taking or failing to take a personnel action in violation 
    of section 2302 of title 5 against an employee relating to the 
    employee--
            ``(A) filing a whistleblower complaint in accordance with 
        section 732 of this title;
            ``(B) filing a whistleblower complaint with the Inspector 
        General of the Department, the Special Counsel, or Congress;
            ``(C) providing information or participating as a witness 
        in an investigation of a whistleblower complaint in accordance 
        with section 732 or with the Inspector General of the 
        Department, the Special Counsel, or Congress;
            ``(D) participating in an audit or investigation by the 
        Comptroller General of the United States;
            ``(E) refusing to perform an action that is unlawful or 
        prohibited by the Department; or
            ``(F) engaging in communications that are related to the 
        duties of the position or are otherwise protected.
        ``(2) Preventing or restricting an employee from making an 
    action described in any of subparagraphs (A) through (F) of 
    paragraph (1).
        ``(3) Conducting a negative peer review or opening a 
    retaliatory investigation because of an activity of an employee 
    that is protected by section 2302 of title 5.
        ``(4) Requesting a contractor to carry out an action that is 
    prohibited by section 4705(b) or section 4712(a)(1) of title 41, as 
    the case may be.
``Sec. 734. Evaluation criteria of supervisors and treatment of bonuses
    ``(a) Evaluation Criteria.--(1) In evaluating the performance of 
supervisors of the Department, the Secretary shall include the criteria 
described in paragraph (2).
    ``(2) The criteria described in this subsection are the following:
        ``(A) Whether the supervisor treats whistleblower complaints in 
    accordance with section 732 of this title.
        ``(B) Whether the appropriate deciding official, performance 
    review board, or performance review committee determines that the 
    supervisor was found to have committed a prohibited personnel 
    action described in section 733(b) of this title by an 
    administrative judge, the Merit Systems Protection Board, the 
    Office of Special Counsel, an adjudicating body provided under a 
    union contract, a Federal judge, or, in the case of a settlement of 
    a whistleblower complaint (regardless of whether any fault was 
    assigned under such settlement), the Secretary.
    ``(b) Bonuses.--(1) The Secretary may not pay to a supervisor 
described in subsection (a)(2)(B) an award or bonus under this title or 
title 5, including under chapter 45 or 53 of such title, during the 
one-year period beginning on the date on which the determination was 
made under such subsection.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
shall issue an order directing a supervisor described in subsection 
(a)(2)(B) to repay the amount of any award or bonus paid under this 
title or title 5, including under chapter 45 or 53 of such title, if--
        ``(A) such award or bonus was paid for performance during a 
    period in which the supervisor committed a prohibited personnel 
    action as determined pursuant to such subsection (a)(2)(B);
        ``(B) the Secretary determines such repayment appropriate 
    pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary to carry out 
    this section; and
        ``(C) the supervisor is afforded notice and an opportunity for 
    a hearing before making such repayment.
``Sec. 735. Training regarding whistleblower complaints
    ``(a) Training.--Not less frequently than once each year, the 
Secretary, in coordination with the Whistleblower Protection Ombudsman 
designated under section 3(d)(1)(C) of the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), shall provide to each employee of the Department 
training regarding whistleblower complaints, including--
        ``(1) an explanation of each method established by law in which 
    an employee may file a whistleblower complaint;
        ``(2) an explanation of prohibited personnel actions described 
    by section 733(c) of this title;
        ``(3) with respect to supervisors, how to treat whistleblower 
    complaints in accordance with section 732 of this title;
        ``(4) the right of the employee to petition Congress regarding 
    a whistleblower complaint in accordance with section 7211 of title 
    5;
        ``(5) an explanation that the employee may not be prosecuted or 
    reprised against for disclosing information to Congress, the 
    Inspector General, or another investigatory agency in instances 
    where such disclosure is permitted by law, including under sections 
    5701, 5705, and 7732 of this title, under section 552a of title 5 
    (commonly referred to as the Privacy Act), under chapter 93 of 
    title 18, and pursuant to regulations promulgated under section 
    264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
    of 1996 (Public Law 104-191);
        ``(6) an explanation of the language that is required to be 
    included in all nondisclosure policies, forms, and agreements 
    pursuant to section 115(a)(1) of the Whistleblower Protection 
    Enhancement Act of 2012 (5 U.S.C. 2302 note); and
        ``(7) the right of contractors to be protected from reprisal 
    for the disclosure of certain information under section 4705 or 
    4712 of title 41.
    ``(b) Manner Training Is Provided.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
training provided under subsection (a) is provided in person.
    ``(c) Certification.--Not less frequently than once each year, the 
Secretary shall provide training on merit system protection in a manner 
that the Special Counsel certifies as being satisfactory.
    ``(d) Publication.--(1) The Secretary shall publish on the Internet 
website of the Department, and display prominently at each facility of 
the Department, the rights of an employee to file a whistleblower 
complaint, including the information described in paragraphs (1) 
through (7) of subsection (a).
    ``(2) The Secretary shall publish on the Internet website of the 
Department, the whistleblower complaint form described in section 
732(g)(2).
``Sec. 736. Reports to Congress
    ``(a) Annual Reports.--Not less frequently than once each year, the 
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report that includes--
        ``(1) with respect to whistleblower complaints filed under 
    section 732 of this title during the year covered by the report--
            ``(A) the number of such complaints filed;
            ``(B) the disposition of such complaints; and
            ``(C) the ways in which the Secretary addressed such 
        complaints in which a positive determination was made by a 
        supervisor under subsection (b)(1) of such section;
        ``(2) the number of whistleblower complaints filed during the 
    year covered by the report that are not included under paragraph 
    (1), including--
            ``(A) the method in which such complaints were filed;
            ``(B) the disposition of such complaints; and
            ``(C) the ways in which the Secretary addressed such 
        complaints; and
        ``(3) with respect to disclosures made by a contractor under 
    section 4705 or 4712 of title 41--
            ``(A) the number of complaints relating to such disclosures 
        that were investigated by the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs during the year covered by the 
        report;
            ``(B) the disposition of such complaints; and
            ``(C) the ways in which the Secretary addressed such 
        complaints.
    ``(b) Notice of Office of Special Counsel Determinations.--Not 
later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary receives from 
the Special Counsel information relating to a whistleblower complaint 
pursuant to section 1213 of title 5, the Secretary shall notify the 
appropriate committees of Congress of such information, including the 
determination made by the Special Counsel.
    ``(c) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this section, the 
term `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
        ``(1) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on 
    Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
        ``(2) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on 
    Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives.''.
    (2) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
        (A) Conforming amendment.--Such chapter is further amended by 
    inserting before section 701 the following:

              ``SUBCHAPTER I--GENERAL EMPLOYEE MATTERS''.

        (B) Clerical amendments.--The table of sections at the 
    beginning of such chapter is amended--
            (i) by inserting before the item relating to section 701 
        the following new item:

               ``subchapter i--general employee matters'';

        and
            (ii) by adding at the end the following new items:

                ``subchapter ii--whistleblower complaints

``731. Whistleblower complaint defined.
``732. Treatment of whistleblower complaints.
``733. Adverse actions against supervisory employees who commit 
          prohibited personnel actions relating to whistleblower 
          complaints.
``734. Evaluation criteria of supervisors and treatment of bonuses.
``735. Training regarding whistleblower complaints.
``736. Reports to Congress.''.

    (b) Treatment of Congressional Testimony by Department of Veterans 
Affairs Employees as Official Duty.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 7 of title 38, United 
    States Code, as designated by section 2(a)(2)(A), is amended by 
    adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 715. Congressional testimony by employees: treatment as official 
   duty
    ``(a) Congressional Testimony.--An employee of the Department is 
performing official duty during the period with respect to which the 
employee is testifying in an official capacity in front of either 
chamber of Congress, a committee of either chamber of Congress, or a 
joint or select committee of Congress.
    ``(b) Travel Expenses.--The Secretary shall provide travel 
expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with 
applicable provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, to 
any employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs performing official 
duty described under subsection (a).''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter, as amended by section 2(a)(2)(B), is further 
    amended by inserting after the item relating to section 713 the 
    following new item:

``715. Congressional testimony by employees: treatment as official 
          duty.''.
    Sec. 248. (a) In General.--For the purposes of verifying that an 
individual performed service under honorable conditions that satisfies 
the requirements of a coastwise merchant seaman who is recognized 
pursuant to section 401 of the GI Bill Improvement Act of 1977 (Public 
Law 95-202; 38 U.S.C. 106 note) as having performed active duty service 
for the purposes described in subsection (c)(1), the Secretary of 
Defense shall accept the following:
        (1) In the case of an individual who served on a coastwise 
    merchant vessel seeking such recognition for whom no applicable 
    Coast Guard shipping or discharge form, ship logbook, merchant 
    mariner's document or Z-card, or other official employment record 
    is available, the Secretary of Defense shall provide such 
    recognition on the basis of applicable Social Security 
    Administration records submitted for or by the individual, together 
    with validated testimony given by the individual or the primary 
    next of kin of the individual that the individual performed such 
    service during the period beginning on December 7, 1941, and ending 
    on December 31, 1946.
        (2) In the case of an individual who served on a coastwise 
    merchant vessel seeking such recognition for whom the applicable 
    Coast Guard shipping or discharge form, ship logbook, merchant 
    mariner's document or Z-card, or other official employment record 
    has been destroyed or otherwise become unavailable by reason of any 
    action committed by a person responsible for the control and 
    maintenance of such form, logbook, or record, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall accept other official documentation demonstrating 
    that the individual performed such service during period beginning 
    on December 7, 1941, and ending on December 31, 1946.
        (3) For the purpose of determining whether to recognize service 
    allegedly performed during the period beginning on December 7, 
    1941, and ending on December 31, 1946, the Secretary shall 
    recognize masters of seagoing vessels or other officers in command 
    of similarly organized groups as agents of the United States who 
    were authorized to document any individual for purposes of hiring 
    the individual to perform service in the merchant marine or 
    discharging an individual from such service.
    (b) Treatment of Other Documentation.--Other documentation accepted 
by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (a)(2) shall satisfy 
all requirements for eligibility of service during the period beginning 
on December 7, 1941, and ending on December 31, 1946.
    (c) Benefits Allowed.--
        (1) Medals, ribbons, and decorations.--An individual whose 
    service is recognized as active duty pursuant to subsection (a) may 
    be awarded an appropriate medal, ribbon, or other military 
    decoration based on such service.
        (2) Status of veteran.--An individual whose service is 
    recognized as active duty pursuant to subsection (a) shall be 
    honored as a veteran but shall not be entitled by reason of such 
    recognized service to any benefit that is not described in this 
    subsection.
    Sec. 249.  Section 322(d)(1) of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``allowance to a veteran'' and inserting the 
    following: ``allowance to--
        ``(A) a veteran'';
        (2) in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
    striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(B) a veteran with a VA service-connected disability rated as 
    30 percent or greater by the Department of Veterans Affairs who is 
    selected by the United States Olympic Committee for the United 
    States Olympic Team for any month in which the veteran is competing 
    in any event sanctioned by the National Governing Bodies of the 
    United States Olympic Sports.''.
    Sec. 250. (a) In General.--Section 111(b)(1) of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
        ``(G) A veteran with vision impairment, a veteran with a spinal 
    cord injury or disorder, or a veteran with double or multiple 
    amputations whose travel is in connection with care provided 
    through a special disabilities rehabilitation program of the 
    Department (including programs provided by spinal cord injury 
    centers, blind rehabilitation centers, and prosthetics 
    rehabilitation centers) if such care is provided--
            ``(i) on an in-patient basis; or
            ``(ii) during a period in which the Secretary provides the 
        veteran with temporary lodging at a facility of the Department 
        to make such care more accessible to the veteran.''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
beneficiary travel program under section 111 of title 38, United States 
Code, as amended by subsection (a), that includes the following:
        (1) The cost of the program.
        (2) The number of veterans served by the program.
        (3) Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 251. (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
establish a program to conduct inspections of kitchens and food service 
areas at each medical facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
Such inspections shall occur not less frequently than annually. The 
program's goal is to ensure that the same standards for kitchens and 
food service areas at hospitals in the private sector are being met at 
kitchens and food service areas at medical facilities of the 
Department.
    (b) Agreement.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall seek to enter into an 
    agreement with the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital 
    Organizations under which the Joint Commission on Accreditation of 
    Hospital Organizations conducts the inspections required under 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Alternate organization.--If the Secretary is unable to 
    enter into an agreement described in paragraph (1) with the Joint 
    Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organizations on terms 
    acceptable to the Secretary, the Secretary shall seek to enter into 
    such an agreement with another appropriate organization that--
            (A) is not part of the Federal Government;
            (B) operates as a not-for-profit entity; and
            (C) has expertise and objectivity comparable to that of the 
        Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organizations.
    (c) Remediation Plan.--
        (1) Initial failure.--If a kitchen or food service area of a 
    medical facility of the Department is determined pursuant to an 
    inspection conducted under subsection (a) not to meet the standards 
    for kitchens and food service areas in hospitals in the private 
    sector, that medical facility fails the inspection and the 
    Secretary shall--
            (A) implement a remediation plan for that medical facility 
        within 72 hours; and
            (B) Conduct a second inspection under subsection (a) at 
        that medical facility within 14 days of the failed inspection.
        (2) Second failure.--If a medical facility of the Department 
    fails the second inspection conducted under paragraph (1)(B), the 
    Secretary shall close the kitchen or food service area at that 
    medical facility that did not meet the standards for kitchens and 
    food service areas in hospitals in the private sector until full 
    remediation is completed and all kitchens and food service areas at 
    that medical facility meet such standards.
        (3) Provision of food.--If a kitchen or food service area is 
    closed at a medical facility of the Department pursuant to 
    paragraph (2), the Director of the Veterans Integrated Service 
    Network in which the medical facility is located shall enter into a 
    contract with a vendor approved by the General Services 
    Administration to provide food at the medical facility.
    (d) Quarterly Reports.--Not less frequently than quarterly, the 
Under Secretary of Health shall submit to Congress a report on 
inspections conducted under this section, and their detailed findings 
and actions taken, during the preceding quarter at medical facilities 
of the Department.
    Sec. 252. (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
establish a program to conduct risk-based inspections for mold and mold 
issues at each medical facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
Such facilities will be rated high, medium, or low risk for mold. Such 
inspections at facilities rated high risk shall occur not less 
frequently than annually, and such inspections at facilities rated 
medium or low risk shall occur not less frequently than biennially.
    (b) Agreement.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall seek to enter into an 
    agreement with the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital 
    Organizations under which the Joint Commission on Accreditation of 
    Hospital Organizations conducts the inspections required under 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Alternate organization.--If the Secretary is unable to 
    enter into an agreement described in paragraph (1) with the Joint 
    Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organizations on terms 
    acceptable to the Secretary, the Secretary shall seek to enter into 
    such an agreement with another appropriate organization that--
            (A) is not part of the Federal Government;
            (B) operates as a not-for-profit entity; and
            (C) has expertise and objectivity comparable to that of the 
        Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organizations.
    (c) Remediation Plan.--If a medical facility of the Department is 
determined pursuant to an inspection conducted under subsection (a) to 
have a mold issue, the Secretary shall--
        (1) implement a remediation plan for that medical facility 
    within 7 days; and
        (2) Conduct a second inspection under subsection (a) at that 
    medical facility within 90 days of the initial inspection.
    (d) Quarterly Reports.--Not less frequently than quarterly, the 
Under Secretary for Health shall submit to Congress a report on 
inspections conducted under this section, and their detailed findings 
and actions taken, during the preceding quarter at medical facilities 
of the Department.
    Sec. 253.  Section 1706(b)(5)(A) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended, in the first sentence, by striking ``through 2008''.
    Sec. 254. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may use amounts 
appropriated or otherwise made available in this title to ensure that 
the ratio of veterans to full-time employment equivalents within any 
program of rehabilitation conducted under chapter 31 of title 38, 
United States Code, does not exceed 125 veterans to one full-time 
employment equivalent.
    (b) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the programs of 
rehabilitation conducted under chapter 31 of title 38, United States 
Code, including--
        (1) an assessment of the veteran-to-staff ratio for each such 
    program; and
        (2) recommendations for such action as the Secretary considers 
    necessary to reduce the veteran-to-staff ratio for each such 
    program.
    Sec. 255. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to deny an Inspector General funded under this Act timely access 
to any records, documents, or other materials available to the 
department or agency over which that Inspector General has 
responsibilities under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.), or to prevent or impede that Inspector General's access to such 
records, documents, or other materials, under any provision of law, 
except a provision of law that expressly refers to the Inspector 
General and expressly limits the Inspector General's right of access.
    (b) A department or agency covered by this section shall provide 
its Inspector General with access to all such records, documents, and 
other materials in a timely manner.
    (c) Each Inspector General shall ensure compliance with statutory 
limitations on disclosure relevant to the information provided by the 
establishment over which that Inspector General has responsibilities 
under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (d) Each Inspector General covered by this section shall report to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate within 5 calendar days any failures to comply with this 
requirement.
    Sec. 256.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this title may be used by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to enter into an agreement related to resolving a dispute or 
claim with an individual that would restrict in any way the individual 
from speaking to members of Congress or their staff on any topic not 
otherwise prohibited from disclosure by Federal law or required by 
Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense 
or the conduct of foreign affairs.
    Sec. 257.  Appropriations made available in this Act under the 
heading ``Medical Services'' shall be available to carry out sections 
322(d) and 521A of title 38, United States Code, to include the payment 
of the administrative expenses necessary to carry out such sections. Of 
the amount appropriated for fiscal year 2017, up to $2,000,000 shall be 
available for the payment of monthly assistance allowances to veterans 
pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 322(d) and up to $8,000,000 shall be available 
for the payment of grants pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 521A. Of the amounts 
appropriated in advance for fiscal year 2018, up to $2,000,000 shall be 
available for the payment of monthly assistance allowances to veterans 
pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 322(d) and up to $8,000,000 shall be available 
for the payment of grants pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 521A.
    Sec. 258. (a) In fiscal year 2017 and each fiscal year hereafter, 
beginning with the fiscal year 2018 budget request submitted to 
Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, 
the budget justification documents submitted for the ``Construction, 
Major Projects'' account of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall 
include, at a minimum, the information required under subsection (b).
    (b) The budget justification documents submitted pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall include, for each project--
        (1) the estimated total cost of the project;
        (2) the funding provided for each fiscal year prior to the 
    budget year;
        (3) the amount requested for the budget year;
        (4) the estimated funding required for the project for each of 
    the 4 fiscal years succeeding the budget year; and
        (5) such additional information as is enumerated under the 
    heading relating to the ``Construction, Major Projects'' account of 
    the Department of Veterans Affairs in the joint explanatory 
    statement accompanying this Act.
    (c) Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a proposed budget 
justification template that complies with the requirements of this 
section.
    Sec. 259. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may carry out the 
following major medical facility projects, with each project to be 
carried out in an amount not to exceed the amount specified for that 
project:
        (1) Seismic corrections to buildings, including retrofitting 
    and replacement of high-risk buildings, in San Francisco, 
    California, in an amount not to exceed $180,480,000.
        (2) Seismic corrections to facilities, including facilities to 
    support homeless veterans, at the medical center in West Los 
    Angeles, California, in an amount not to exceed $105,500,000.
        (3) Seismic corrections to the mental health and community 
    living center in Long Beach, California, in an amount not to exceed 
    $287,100,000.
        (4) Construction of an outpatient clinic, administrative space, 
    cemetery, and columbarium in Alameda, California, in an amount not 
    to exceed $87,332,000.
        (5) Realignment of medical facilities in Livermore, California, 
    in an amount not to exceed $194,430,000.
        (6) Construction of a medical center in Louisville, Kentucky, 
    in an amount not to exceed $150,000,000.
        (7) Construction of a replacement community living center in 
    Perry Point, Maryland, in an amount not to exceed $92,700,000.
        (8) Seismic corrections and other renovations to several 
    buildings and construction of a specialty care building in American 
    Lake, Washington, in an amount not to exceed $16,260,000.
    (b) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2016 or the year in which funds are 
appropriated for the Construction, Major Projects, account, 
$1,113,802,000 for the projects authorized in subsection (a).
    (c) The projects authorized in subsection (a) may only be carried 
out using--
        (1) funds appropriated for fiscal year 2016 pursuant to the 
    authorization of appropriations in subsection (b);
        (2) funds available for Construction, Major Projects, for a 
    fiscal year before fiscal year 2016 that remain available for 
    obligation;
        (3) funds available for Construction, Major Projects, for a 
    fiscal year after fiscal year 2016 that remain available for 
    obligation;
        (4) funds appropriated for Construction, Major Projects, for 
    fiscal year 2016 for a category of activity not specific to a 
    project;
        (5) funds appropriated for Construction, Major Projects, for a 
    fiscal year before fiscal year 2016 for a category of activity not 
    specific to a project; and
        (6) funds appropriated for Construction, Major Projects, for a 
    fiscal year after fiscal year 2016 for a category of activity not 
    specific to a project.
    Sec. 260. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for the ``Medical Services'' account may be used to 
provide--
        (1) fertility counseling and treatment using assisted 
    reproductive technology to a covered veteran or the spouse of a 
    covered veteran; or
        (2) adoption reimbursement to a covered veteran.
    (b) In this section:
        (1) The term ``service-connected'' has the meaning given such 
    term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``covered veteran'' means a veteran, as such term 
    is defined in section 101 of title 38, United States Code, who has 
    a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the 
    veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment.
        (3) The term ``assisted reproductive technology'' means 
    benefits relating to reproductive assistance provided to a member 
    of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or illness on 
    active duty pursuant to section 1074(c)(4)(A) of title 10, United 
    States Code, as described in the memorandum on the subject of 
    ``Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services for the Benefit of 
    Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or III) Active Duty 
    Service Members'' issued by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
    Health Affairs on April 3, 2012, and the guidance issued to 
    implement such policy, including any limitations on the amount of 
    such benefits available to such a member.
        (4) The term ``adoption reimbursement'' means reimbursement for 
    the adoption-related expenses for an adoption that is finalized 
    after the date of the enactment of this Act under the same terms as 
    apply under the adoption reimbursement program of the Department of 
    Defense, as authorized in Department of Defense Instruction 
    1341.09, including the reimbursement limits and requirements set 
    forth in such instruction.
    (c) Amounts made available for the purposes specified in subsection 
(a) of this section are subject to the requirements for funds contained 
in section 508 of division H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
2016 (Public Law 114-113).

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement 
basis only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $7,500 
for official reception and representation expenses; and insurance of 
official motor vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of 
such countries, $75,100,000, to remain available until expended.

                 foreign currency fluctuations account

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes authorized by section 2109 of 
title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by sections 7251 through 
7298 of title 38, United States Code, $30,945,000:  Provided, That 
$2,500,000 shall be available for the purpose of providing financial 
assistance as described, and in accordance with the process and 
reporting procedures set forth, under this heading in Public Law 102-
229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for maintenance, operation, and improvement 
of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National 
Cemetery, including the purchase or lease of passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement on a one-for-one basis only, and not to exceed $1,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $70,800,000, of 
which not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2019. In addition, such sums as may be necessary for parking 
maintenance, repairs and replacement, to be derived from the ``Lease of 
Department of Defense Real Property for Defense Agencies'' account.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               trust fund

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home to 
operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi, to be paid from funds available in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund, $64,300,000, of which $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for construction and renovation of the 
physical plants at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi:  Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading from funds available in the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust 
Fund, $22,000,000 shall be paid from the general fund of the Treasury 
to the Trust Fund.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 301.  Funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Department of Defense--Civil, Cemeterial Expenses, Army'', may be 
provided to Arlington County, Virginia, for the relocation of the 
federally owned water main at Arlington National Cemetery, making 
additional land available for ground burials.
    Sec. 302.  Amounts deposited into the special account established 
under 10 U.S.C. 4727 are appropriated and shall be available until 
expended to support activities at the Army National Military 
Cemeteries.

                                TITLE IV

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army'', 
$18,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, for projects 
outside of the United States:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $59,809,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021, for projects outside of the United States:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'' 
$88,291,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, for projects 
outside of the United States:  Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Defense-
Wide'', $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, for 
projects outside of the United States:  Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 401.  Each amount designated in this Act by the Congress for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985 shall be available only if the President 
subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such 
designations to the Congress.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 503.  All departments and agencies funded under this Act are 
encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory authorities and 
funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' technologies and 
procedures in the conduct of their business practices and public 
service activities.
    Sec. 504.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and notifications 
required by this Act shall be submitted to the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related 
Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 505.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 506.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for a project or program named for an individual serving as a Member, 
Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the United States House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 507. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public Web 
site of that agency any report required to be submitted by the Congress 
in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head of the 
agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
        (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
    security; or
        (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
    information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.
    Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by an agency of the executive branch to pay for first-class travel by 
an employee of the agency in contravention of sections 301-10.122 
through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to execute a contract for goods or services, including construction 
services, where the contractor has not complied with Executive Order 
No. 12989.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
lease or purchase new light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or 
for an agency's fleet inventory, except in accordance with Presidential 
Memorandum--Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 512. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in this Act may 
be used to construct, renovate, or expand any facility in the United 
States, its territories, or possessions to house any individual 
detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for the 
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
control of the Department of Defense.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
        (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of the 
    Armed Forces of the United States; and
        (2) is--
            (A) in the custody or under the effective control of the 
        Department of Defense; or
            (B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
        Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction, Veterans 
Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017''.

               DIVISION B--ZIKA RESPONSE AND PREPAREDNESS

                                TITLE I

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                cdc-wide activities and program support

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``CDC-Wide 
Activities and Program Support'', $394,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to Zika 
virus, health conditions related to such virus, and other vector-borne 
diseases, domestically and internationally:  Provided, That products 
purchased with these funds may, at the discretion of the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services, be deposited in the Strategic National 
Stockpile under section 319F-2 of the Public Health Service (``PHS'') 
Act:  Provided further, That funds may be used for purchase and 
insurance of official motor vehicles in foreign countries:  Provided 
further, That the provisions in section 317S of the PHS Act shall apply 
to the use of funds appropriated in this paragraph as determined by the 
Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to be 
appropriate:  Provided further, That funds appropriated in this 
paragraph may be used for grants for the construction, alteration, or 
renovation of non-federally owned facilities to improve preparedness 
and response capability at State and local laboratories:  Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated in this paragraph, $44,000,000 
is included to supplement either fiscal year 2016 or fiscal year 2017 
funds for the Public Health Emergency Preparedness cooperative 
agreement program to restore fiscal year 2016 funds that were 
reprogrammed for Zika virus response prior to the enactment of this 
Act:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     National Institutes of Health

         national institute of allergy and infectious diseases

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``National 
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases'', $152,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017, for research on the virology, 
natural history, and pathogenesis of the Zika virus infection and 
preclinical and clinical development of vaccines and other medical 
countermeasures for the Zika virus and other vector-borne diseases, 
domestically and internationally:  Provided, That such funds may be 
transferred by the Director of the National Institutes of Health 
(``NIH'') to other accounts of the NIH for the purposes provided in 
this paragraph:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                        Office of the Secretary

            public health and social services emergency fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Public Health 
and Social Services Emergency Fund'', $387,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to Zika 
virus, health conditions related to such virus, and other vector-borne 
diseases, domestically and internationally; to develop necessary 
countermeasures and vaccines, including the development and purchase of 
vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, necessary medical supplies, and 
administrative activities; for carrying out section 501 of the Social 
Security Act; and for carrying out sections 330 through 336 and 338 of 
the PHS Act:  Provided, That funds appropriated in this paragraph may 
be used to procure security countermeasures (as defined in section 
319F-2(c)(1)(B) of the PHS Act):  Provided further, That paragraphs (1) 
and (7)(C) of subsection (c) of section 319F-2 of the PHS Act, but no 
other provisions of such section, shall apply to such security 
countermeasures procured with funds appropriated in this paragraph:  
Provided further, That products purchased with funds appropriated in 
this paragraph may, at the discretion of the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, be deposited in the Strategic National Stockpile under 
section 319F-2 of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated in this paragraph may be transferred to the fund 
authorized by section 319F-4 of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading, $75,000,000, in addition to 
the purposes specified above, shall also be available for necessary 
expenses for support to States, territories, tribes, or tribal 
organizations with active or local transmission cases of the Zika 
virus, as confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
to reimburse the costs of health care for health conditions related to 
the Zika virus, other than costs that are covered by private health 
insurance, of which not less than $60,000,000 shall be for territories 
with the highest rates of Zika transmission:  Provided further, That of 
the funds appropriated under this heading, $20,000,000 shall be 
awarded, notwithstanding section 502 of the Social Security Act, for 
projects of regional and national significance in Puerto Rico and other 
territories authorized under section 501 of the Social Security Act:  
Provided further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, 
$40,000,000 shall be used to expand the delivery of primary health 
services authorized by section 330 of the PHS Act in Puerto Rico and 
other territories:  Provided further, That of the funds appropriated 
under this heading, $6,000,000 shall, for purposes of providing primary 
health services in areas affected by Zika virus or other vector-borne 
diseases, be used to assign National Health Service Corps (``NHSC'') 
members to Puerto Rico and other territories, notwithstanding the 
assignment priorities and limitations in or under sections 
333(a)(1)(D), 333(b), or 333A(a) of the PHS Act, and to make NHSC Loan 
Repayment Program awards under section 338B of such Act:  Provided 
further, That for purposes of the previous proviso, section 
331(a)(3)(D) of the PHS Act shall be applied as if the term ``primary 
health services'' included health services regarding pediatric 
subspecialists:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                     (including transfer of funds)

                              direct hires

    Sec. 101.  Funds appropriated by this title may be used by the 
heads of the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of 
State, and the United States Agency for International Development to 
appoint, without regard to the provisions of sections 3309 through 3319 
of title 5 of the United States Code, candidates needed for positions 
to perform critical work relating to Zika response for which--
        (1) public notice has been given; and
        (2) the Secretary of Health and Human Services has determined 
    that such a public health threat exists.

                          transfer authorities

    Sec. 102.  Funds appropriated by this title may be transferred to, 
and merged with, other appropriation accounts under the headings 
``Centers for Disease Control and Prevention'', ``Public Health and 
Social Services Emergency Fund'', and ``National Institutes of Health'' 
for the purposes specified in this title following consultation with 
the Office of Management and Budget:  Provided, That the Committees on 
Appropriations shall be notified 10 days in advance of any such 
transfer:  Provided further, That, upon a determination that all or 
part of the funds transferred from an appropriation are not necessary, 
such amounts may be transferred back to that appropriation:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available by this title may be 
transferred pursuant to the authority in section 205 of division H of 
Public Law 114-113 or section 241(a) of the PHS Act.

                         reporting requirements

    Sec. 103.  Not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall provide a detailed spend 
plan of anticipated uses of funds made available in this title, 
including estimated personnel and administrative costs, to the 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided, That such plans shall be 
updated and submitted to the Committees on Appropriations every 60 days 
until September 30, 2017.

                               oversight

    Sec. 104.  Of the funds appropriated by this title under the 
heading ``Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund'', up to--
        (1) $500,000 shall be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
    made available under the heading ``Office of the Secretary, Office 
    of Inspector General'', and shall remain available until expended, 
    for oversight of activities supported with funds appropriated by 
    this title:  Provided, That the Secretary of Health and Human 
    Services shall consult with the Committees on Appropriations prior 
    to obligating such funds:  Provided further, That the transfer 
    authority provided by this paragraph is in addition to any other 
    transfer authority provided by law; and
        (2) $500,000 shall be made available to the Comptroller General 
    of the United States, and shall remain available until expended, 
    for oversight of activities supported with funds appropriated by 
    this title:  Provided, That the Comptroller General shall consult 
    with the Committees on Appropriations prior to obligating such 
    funds.

                                TITLE II

                          DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                   Administration of Foreign Affairs

                    diplomatic and consular programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Diplomatic and 
Consular Programs'', $14,594,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2017, for necessary expenses to support response efforts related to 
the Zika virus, health conditions related to such virus, and other 
vector-borne diseases:  Provided, That such funds may be made available 
for medical evacuation costs of any other department or agency of the 
United States under Chief of Mission authority, and may be transferred 
to any other appropriation of such department or agency for such costs: 
 Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

           emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Emergencies in 
the Diplomatic and Consular Service'', $4,000,000 for necessary 
expenses to support response efforts related to the Zika virus, health 
conditions related to such virus, and other vector-borne diseases, to 
remain available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such amount 
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                   repatriation loans program account

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Repatriation 
Loans Program Account'' for the cost of direct loans, $1,000,000, to 
support response efforts related to the Zika virus, health conditions 
related to such virus, and other vector-borne diseases, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017:  Provided, That such costs, 
including costs of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 
502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That 
such funds are available to subsidize an additional amount of gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$1,880,406:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.

           UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Operating 
Expenses'', $10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, 
for necessary expenses to support response efforts related to the Zika 
virus, health conditions related to such virus, and other vector-borne 
diseases:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     BILATERAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE

                  Funds Appropriated to the President

                         global health programs

    For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Global Health 
Programs'', $145,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2017, 
for necessary expenses to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the Zika 
virus, health conditions related to such virus, and other vector-borne 
diseases:  Provided, That funds appropriated under this heading shall 
be made available for vector control activities, vaccines, diagnostics, 
and vector control technologies:  Provided further, That funds 
appropriated under this heading may be made available as contributions 
to the World Health Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund, 
the Pan American Health Organization, the International Atomic Energy 
Agency, and the Food and Agriculture Organization:  Provided further, 
That funds made available under this heading shall be subject to prior 
consultation with the Committees on Appropriations:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made 
available for the Grand Challenges for Development program:  Provided 
further, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                     GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE

                          transfer authorities

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201. (a) Funds appropriated by this title under the headings 
``Diplomatic and Consular Programs'', ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic 
and Consular Service'', ``Repatriation Loans Program Account'', and 
``Operating Expenses'' may be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
appropriated by this title under such headings to carry out the 
purposes of this title.
    (b) The transfer authorities provided by this section are in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided by law.
    (c) Upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred 
pursuant to the authorities provided by this section are not necessary 
for such purposes, such amounts may be transferred back to such 
appropriations.
    (d) No funds shall be transferred pursuant to this section unless 
at least 5 days prior to making such transfer the Secretary of State or 
the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development, as appropriate, notifies the Committees on Appropriations 
in writing of the details of any such transfer.

                        notification requirement

    Sec. 202.  Funds appropriated by this title shall only be available 
for obligation if the Secretary of State or the Administrator of the 
United States Agency for International Development, as appropriate, 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations in writing at least 15 days 
in advance of such obligation.

                   consolidated reporting requirement

    Sec. 203.  Not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act and 
prior to the initial obligation of funds made available by this title, 
the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development shall submit a consolidated report 
to the Committees on Appropriations on the anticipated uses of such 
funds on a country and project basis, including estimated personnel and 
administrative costs:  Provided, That such report shall be updated and 
submitted to the Committees on Appropriations every 60 days until 
September 30, 2017.

                               oversight

    Sec. 204.  Of the funds appropriated by this title, up to--
        (1) $500,000 shall be transferred to, and merged with, funds 
    available under the heading ``United States Agency for 
    International Development, Funds Appropriated to the President, 
    Office of Inspector General'', and shall remain available until 
    expended, for oversight of activities supported with funds 
    appropriated by this title:  Provided, That the transfer authority 
    provided by this paragraph is in addition to any other transfer 
    authority provided by law; and
        (2) $500,000 shall be made available to the Comptroller General 
    of the United States, and shall remain available until expended, 
    for oversight of activities supported with funds appropriated by 
    this title:  Provided, That the Secretary of State and the 
    Comptroller General, as appropriate, shall consult with the 
    Committees on Appropriations prior to obligating such funds.

                               TITLE III

                   GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS DIVISION

                extension of authorities and provisions

    Sec. 301.  Unless otherwise provided for by this division, the 
additional amounts appropriated pursuant to this division are subject 
to the requirements for funds contained in the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2016 (Public Law 114-113).

                      personal service contractors

    Sec. 302.  Funds made available by this division may be used to 
enter into contracts with individuals for the provision of personal 
services (as described in section 104 of part 37 of title 48, Code of 
Federal Regulations (48 CFR 37.104)) to support the purposes of titles 
I and II of this division, within the United States and abroad, subject 
to prior consultation with, and the notification procedures of, the 
Committees on Appropriations:  Provided, That such individuals may not 
be deemed employees of the United States for the purpose of any law 
administered by the Office of Personnel Management:  Provided further, 
That the authority made available pursuant to this section shall expire 
on September 30, 2017.

                         designation retention

    Sec. 303.  Any amount appropriated by this division, designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 and subsequently so designated by the President, and 
transferred pursuant to transfer authorities provided by this division 
shall retain such designation.

                             effective date

    Sec. 304.  This division shall become effective immediately upon 
enactment of this Act.
     This division may be cited as the ``Zika Response and Preparedness 
Appropriations Act, 2016''.

            DIVISION C--CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2017

     The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and out of applicable 
corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds, for the several 
departments, agencies, corporations, and other organizational units of 
Government for fiscal year 2017, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided in the applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal 
year 2016 and under the authority and conditions provided in such Acts, 
for continuing projects or activities (including the costs of direct 
loans and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided 
for in this Act, that were conducted in fiscal year 2016, and for which 
appropriations, funds, or other authority were made available in the 
following appropriations Acts:
        (1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
    Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 
    (division A of Public Law 114-113), except section 728.
        (2) The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
    Appropriations Act, 2016 (division B of Public Law 114-113).
        (3) The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2016 
    (division C of Public Law 114-113).
        (4) The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies 
    Appropriations Act, 2016 (division D of Public Law 114-113).
        (5) The Financial Services and General Government 
    Appropriations Act, 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-113), which 
    for purposes of this Act shall be treated as including section 707 
    of division O of Public Law 114-113.
        (6) The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
    2016 (division F of Public Law 114-113).
        (7) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related 
    Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 (division G of Public Law 114-
    113).
        (8) The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
    Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 (division 
    H of Public Law 114-113).
        (9) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2016 (division I 
    of Public Law 114-113).
        (10) The Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related 
    Programs Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 114-
    113), except title IX.
        (11) The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and 
    Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 (division L of Public Law 
    114-113), except section 420.
    (b) The rate for operations provided by subsection (a) is hereby 
reduced by 0.496 percent.
    Sec. 102. (a) No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for: (1) the new production of items not funded for production in 
fiscal year 2016 or prior years; (2) the increase in production rates 
above those sustained with fiscal year 2016 funds; or (3) the 
initiation, resumption, or continuation of any project, activity, 
operation, or organization (defined as any project, subproject, 
activity, budget activity, program element, and subprogram within a 
program element, and for any investment items defined as a P-1 line 
item in a budget activity within an appropriation account and an R-1 
line item that includes a program element and subprogram element within 
an appropriation account) for which appropriations, funds, or other 
authority were not available during fiscal year 2016.
    (b) No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted 
pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be used to 
initiate multi-year procurements utilizing advance procurement funding 
for economic order quantity procurement unless specifically 
appropriated later.
    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in section 102, no 
appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to 
section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any project or activity 
for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available 
during fiscal year 2016.
    Sec. 105.  Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to 
this Act shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred for any 
project or activity during the period for which funds or authority for 
such project or activity are available under this Act.
    Sec. 106.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2017, appropriations and 
funds made available and authority granted pursuant to this Act shall 
be available until whichever of the following first occurs: (1) the 
enactment into law of an appropriation for any project or activity 
provided for in this Act; (2) the enactment into law of the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2017 without any provision for such 
project or activity; or (3) December 9, 2016.
    Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this Act shall be charged 
to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever a bill 
in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is 
contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108.  Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this Act may be used without regard to 
the time limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set 
forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing in 
this Act may be construed to waive any other provision of law governing 
the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, except 
section 106, for those programs that would otherwise have high initial 
rates of operation or complete distribution of appropriations at the 
beginning of fiscal year 2017 because of distributions of funding to 
States, foreign countries, grantees, or others, such high initial rates 
of operation or complete distribution shall not be made, and no grants 
shall be awarded for such programs funded by this Act that would 
impinge on final funding prerogatives.
    Sec. 110.  This Act shall be implemented so that only the most 
limited funding action of that permitted in the Act shall be taken in 
order to provide for continuation of projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2016, and for activities under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, 
activities shall be continued at the rate to maintain program levels 
under current law, under the authority and conditions provided in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016, to be continued 
through the date specified in section 106(3).
    (b) Notwithstanding section 106, obligations for mandatory payments 
due on or about the first day of any month that begins after October 
2016 but not later than 30 days after the date specified in section 
106(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be available for such 
payments.
    Sec. 112.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid 
furloughs within such department or agency, consistent with the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016, except that such 
authority provided under this section shall not be used until after the 
department or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer 
non-personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 113.  Funds appropriated by this Act may be obligated and 
expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 (22 U.S.C. 
2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations Authorization 
Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and section 504(a)(1) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114. (a) Each amount incorporated by reference in this Act 
that was previously designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or as 
being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of such Act 
is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of such Act or 
as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of such 
Act, respectively.
    (b) The reduction in section 101(b) of this Act shall not apply 
to--
        (1) amounts designated under subsection (a) of this section;
        (2) amounts made available by section 101(a) by reference to 
    the second paragraph under the heading ``Social Security 
    Administration--Limitation on Administrative Expenses'' in division 
    H of Public Law 114-113; or
        (3) amounts made available by section 101(a) by reference to 
    the paragraph under the heading ``Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
    Services--Health Care Fraud and Abuse Control Account'' in division 
    H of Public Law 114-113.
    (c) Section 6 of Public Law 114-113 shall apply to amounts 
designated in subsection (a) for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism.
    Sec. 115.  During the period covered by this Act, discretionary 
amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2017 that were provided in advance 
by appropriations Acts covered by section 101 of this Act shall be 
available in the amounts provided in such Acts, reduced by the 
percentage in section 101(b).
    Sec. 116. (a) In addition to the amounts otherwise provided by 
section 101, and notwithstanding section 104, an additional amount is 
provided to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to carry out the 
authorizations in the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 
(Public Law 114-198), at a rate for operations of $17,000,000.
    (b) In addition to the amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
and notwithstanding section 104, an additional amount is provided to 
the Attorney General to carry out the authorizations in the 
Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-198), 
at a rate for operations of $20,000,000.
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, in addition to 
the purposes otherwise provided for amounts that become available on 
October 1, 2016, under the heading ``Department of Veterans Affairs--
Veterans Health Administration--Medical Services'' in division J of 
Public Law 114-113, such amounts shall be used to implement the Jason 
Simcakoski Memorial and Promise Act (title IX of Public Law 114-198) 
and the amendments made by that Act.
    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Agriculture--Domestic Food Programs--Food and Nutrition 
Service--Commodity Assistance Program'' at a rate for operations of 
$310,139,000, of which $236,120,000 shall be for the Commodity 
Supplemental Food Program.
    Sec. 118.  Amounts provided by section 111 to the Department of 
Agriculture for ``Corporations--Commodity Credit Corporation Fund--
Reimbursement for Net Realized Losses'' may be used, prior to the 
completion of the report described in section 2 of the Act of August 
17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11), to reimburse the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for net realized losses sustained, but not previously 
reimbursed, as reflected in the June 2016 report of its financial 
condition.
    Sec. 119.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Department 
of Agriculture--Rural Housing Service--Rental Assistance Program'' may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to pay ongoing 
debt service for the multi-family direct loan programs under sections 
514 and 515 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1484 and 1485).
    Sec. 120.  Section 529(b)(5) of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360ff(b)(5)) shall be applied by substituting 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act for ``September 30, 
2016''.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding sections 101 and 102, within amounts 
provided for ``Department of Defense--Operation and Maintenance, 
Defense-Wide'' and ``Department of Defense--Research, Development, Test 
and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', except for amounts designated for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, the Secretary of Defense may develop, replace, and 
sustain Federal Government security and suitability background 
investigation information technology system requirements of the Office 
of Personnel Management at a rate for operations of $95,000,000.
    Sec. 122.  Section 1215(f)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 113 note), as 
most recently amended by section 1221 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92), shall be 
applied by substituting ``2017'' for ``2016'' through the earlier of 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act or the date of the 
enactment of an Act authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2017 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 123. (a) Funds made available by section 101 for ``Department 
of Energy--Energy Programs--Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and 
Decommissioning Fund'' may be apportioned up to the rate for operations 
necessary to avoid disruption of continuing projects or activities 
funded in this appropriation.
    (b) The Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate not later 
than 3 days after each use of the authority provided in subsection (a).
    Sec. 124. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
except section 106, the District of Columbia may expend local funds 
under the heading ``District of Columbia Funds'' for such programs and 
activities under the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2016 
(title IV of division E of Public Law 114-113) at the rate set forth 
under ``Part A--Summary of Expenses'' as included in the Fiscal Year 
2017 Local Budget Act of 2016 (D.C. Act 21-414), as modified as of the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) During the period in which this Act is in effect, the authority 
and conditions provided in the Financial Services and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2016 (division E of Public Law 114-113) 
which were applicable to the obligation or expenditure of funds by the 
District of Columbia for any program, project, or activity during 
fiscal year 2016 shall apply to the obligation or expenditure of funds 
by the District of Columbia with respect to such program, project, or 
activity under any authority.
    Sec. 125. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``General Services Administration--Expenses, Presidential Transition'' 
for necessary expenses to carry out the Presidential Transition Act of 
1963 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), at a rate for operations of $9,500,000, of 
which not to exceed $1,000,000 is for activities authorized by sections 
3(a)(8) and 3(a)(9) of such Act:  Provided, That such amounts may be 
transferred and credited to the ``Acquisition Services Fund'' or 
``Federal Buildings Fund'' to reimburse obligations incurred prior to 
enactment of this Act for the purposes provided herein related to the 
Presidential election in 2016:  Provided further, That amounts 
available under this section shall be in addition to any other amounts 
available for such purposes.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 101, no funds are provided by this Act 
for ``General Services Administration--Pre-Election Presidential 
Transition''.
    Sec. 126.  Notwithstanding section 101, for expenses of the Office 
of Administration to carry out the Presidential Transition Act of 1963, 
as amended, and similar expenses, in addition to amounts otherwise 
appropriated by law, amounts are provided to ``Presidential Transition 
Administrative Support'' at a rate for operations of $7,582,000:  
Provided, That such funds may be transferred to other accounts that 
provide funding for offices within the Executive Office of the 
President and the Office of the Vice President in this Act or any other 
Act, to carry out such purposes.
    Sec. 127.  In addition to the amounts otherwise provided by section 
101, an additional amount is provided for ``District of Columbia--
Federal Payment for Emergency Planning and Security Costs in the 
District of Columbia'' for costs associated with the Presidential 
Inauguration, at a rate for operations of $19,995,000.
    Sec. 128.  In addition to the amounts otherwise provided by section 
101, an additional amount is provided for ``National Archives and 
Records Administration--Operating Expenses'' to carry out the 
Presidential transition responsibilities of the Archivist of the United 
States under sections 2201 through 2207 of title 44, United States Code 
(commonly known as the ``Presidential Records Act of 1978''), at a rate 
for operations of $4,850,000.
    Sec. 129.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Small 
Business Administration--Business Loans Program Account'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to accommodate 
increased demand for commitments for general business loans authorized 
under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)).
    Sec. 130.  Amounts provided by section 101 for the Department of 
Homeland Security may be obligated in the account and budget structure 
set forth in the table provided by the Chief Financial Officer of the 
Department to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives prior to the end of fiscal year 2016 pursuant 
to section 563(e) of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations 
Act, 2016 (division F of Public Law 114-113).
    Sec. 131. (a) Amounts made available by section 101 for 
``Department of Homeland Security--U.S. Customs and Border Protection--
Operations and Support'' may be apportioned up to the rate for 
operations necessary to maintain not less than the number of staff 
achieved on September 30, 2016.
    (b) Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Department of 
Homeland Security--Transportation Security Administration--Operations 
and Support'' may be apportioned up to the rate for operations 
necessary to maintain not less than the number of screeners achieved on 
September 30, 2016.
    Sec. 132.  The authority provided by section 831 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act.
    Sec. 133.  Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement 
Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2017'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2018''.
    Sec. 134. (a) The authority provided by subsection (m)(3) of 
section 8162 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (40 
U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 106-79) shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this Act.
    (b) Section 419(b) of division G of Public Law 114-113 shall not 
apply during the period covered by this Act.
    Sec. 135.  Notwithstanding section 101, subsection 35(d) of the 
Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(d)) shall be applied, at a rate for 
operations, through the date specified in section 106(3), as if the 
following new paragraph were added at the end--
        ``(5) There is appropriated to the Fee Account established in 
    subsection (c)(3)(B)(ii) of this section, out of any money in the 
    Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $26,000,000 for fiscal year 
    2017, to remain available until expended, for the coordination and 
    processing of oil and gas use authorizations, to be reduced by 
    amounts collected by the Bureau and transferred to such Fee Account 
    pursuant to subsection (d)(3)(A)(ii) of this section, so as to 
    result in a final fiscal year 2017 appropriation from the general 
    fund estimated at not more than $0.''.
    Sec. 136.  In addition to the amounts otherwise provided by section 
101, an additional amount is provided for ``Department of the 
Interior--National Park Service--Operation of the National Park 
System'' for security and visitor safety activities related to the 
Presidential Inaugural Ceremonies, at a rate for operations of 
$4,200,000.
    Sec. 137.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available by 
section 101, and notwithstanding section 104, amounts are provided for 
``Environmental Protection Agency--Environmental Programs and 
Management'' at a rate for operations of $3,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, and such amounts may be apportioned up to the 
rate for operations needed, for necessary expenses of activities 
described in section 26(b)(1) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 
U.S.C. 2625(b)(1)):  Provided, That fees collected pursuant to such 
section of such Act and deposited in the ``TSCA Service Fee Fund'' as 
discretionary offsetting receipts in fiscal year 2017 shall be retained 
and used for necessary salaries and expenses under the above heading 
and shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, That the 
sum provided by this section of this Act from the general fund for 
fiscal year 2017 shall be reduced by the amount of discretionary 
offsetting receipts received during fiscal year 2017, so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 2017 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at not more than $0:  Provided further, That to the extent 
that amounts realized from such receipts exceed $3,000,000, those 
amounts in excess of $3,000,000 shall be deposited in the ``TSCA 
Service Fee Fund'' as discretionary offsetting receipts in fiscal year 
2017, shall be retained and used for necessary salaries and expenses in 
this account, and shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That of the amounts provided under this heading by section 
101, the Chemical Risk Review and Reduction program project shall be 
allocated for this fiscal year, excluding the amount of any fees made 
available, not less than the amount of appropriations for that program 
project for fiscal year 2014.
    Sec. 138.  Section 114(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 1011c(f)) shall be applied by substituting the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this Act for ``September 30, 2016''.
    Sec. 139.  The first proviso under the heading ``Department of 
Health and Human Services--Administration for Children and Families--
Payments to States for the Child Care and Development Block Grant'' in 
title II of division H of Public Law 114-113 shall not apply during the 
period covered by this Act.
    Sec. 140. (a) The second proviso under the heading ``Department of 
Health and Human Services--Administration for Children and Families--
Children and Families Services Programs'' in title II of division H of 
Public Law 114-113 shall be applied during the period covered by this 
Act as if the following were struck from such proviso: ``, of which 
$141,000,000 shall be available for a cost of living adjustment 
notwithstanding section 640(a)(3)(A) of such Act''.
    (b) Amounts made available in the third proviso under the heading 
``Department of Health and Human Services--Administration for Children 
and Families--Children and Families Services Programs'' in title II of 
division H of Public Law 114-113 shall not be included in the 
calculation of the ``base grant'', as such term is used in section 
640(a)(7)(A) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9835(a)(7)(A)), during 
the period described in section 106 of this Act.
    Sec. 141. (a) Section 529 of division H of Public Law 114-113 shall 
be applied by substituting ``in the Child Enrollment Contingency Fund 
from the appropriation to the Fund for the first semi-annual allotment 
period for fiscal year 2017 under section 2104(n)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
Social Security Act'' for ``or available in the Child Enrollment 
Contingency Fund from appropriations to the Fund under section 
2104(n)(2)(A)(i) of the Social Security Act''; and
    (b) Section 530 of division H of Public Law 114-113 shall be 
applied by substituting ``$541,900,000'' for ``$4,678,500,000'' and by 
adding at the end the following: ``and of the funds made available for 
the purposes of carrying out section 2105(a)(3) of the Social Security 
Act, $5,669,100,000 are hereby rescinded''.
    Sec. 142.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, there 
is appropriated for payment to Sami A. Takai, widow of Kyle Mark Takai, 
late a Representative from the State of Hawaii, $174,000.
    Sec. 143. (a) Amounts made available by section 101 for 
``Department of Transportation--Federal Railroad Administration--
Operating Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' and 
``Department of Transportation--Federal Railroad Administration--
Capital and Debt Service Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation'' shall be obligated in the account and budget structure, 
and under the authorities and conditions, set forth for ``Department of 
Transportation--Federal Railroad Administration--Northeast Corridor 
Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' and 
``Department of Transportation--Federal Railroad Administration--
National Network Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation'' in H.R. 5394 and S. 2844, as introduced in the One 
Hundred Fourteenth Congress.
    (b) Amounts made available pursuant to subsection (a) are provided 
for ``Department of Transportation--Federal Railroad Administration--
Northeast Corridor Grants to the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation'' at a rate for operations of $235,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, and for ``Department of Transportation--
Federal Railroad Administration--National Network Grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation'' at a rate for operations of 
$1,155,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    Sec. 144.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Maritime 
Administration--Maritime Security Program'' shall be allocated at an 
annual rate across all vessels covered by operating agreements, as that 
term is used in chapter 531 of title 46, United States Code, and the 
Secretary shall distribute equally all such funds for payments due 
under all operating agreements in equal amounts notwithstanding title 
46, United States Code, section 53106:  Provided, That no payment shall 
exceed an annual rate of $3,500,000 per operating agreement.
    Sec. 145. (a) In addition to the amount otherwise provided by 
section 101 for the ``Community Planning and Development, Community 
Development Fund'', there is appropriated $500,000,000 for an 
additional amount for fiscal year 2016, to remain available until 
expended, for necessary expenses for activities authorized under title 
I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 
et seq.) related to disaster relief, long-term recovery, restoration of 
infrastructure and housing, and economic revitalization in the most 
impacted and distressed areas resulting from a major disaster declared 
in 2016, and which the disaster occurred prior to the date of enactment 
of this Act, pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):  Provided, That 
funds shall be awarded directly to the State or unit of general local 
government at the discretion of the Secretary:  Provided further, That 
as a condition of making any grant, the Secretary shall certify in 
advance that such grantee has in place proficient financial controls 
and procurement processes and has established adequate procedures to 
prevent any duplication of benefits as defined by section 312 of the 
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 5155), to ensure timely expenditure of funds, to maintain 
comprehensive websites regarding all disaster recovery activities 
assisted with these funds, and to detect and prevent waste, fraud, and 
abuse of funds:  Provided further, That prior to the obligation of 
funds a grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary for approval 
detailing the proposed use of all funds, including criteria for 
eligibility and how the use of these funds will address long-term 
recovery and restoration of infrastructure and housing and economic 
revitalization in the most impacted and distressed areas:  Provided 
further, That such funds may not be used for activities reimbursable 
by, or for which funds are made available by, the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency or the Army Corps of Engineers:  Provided further, 
That funds allocated under this heading shall not be considered 
relevant to the non-disaster formula allocations made pursuant to 
section 106 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 
U.S.C. 5306):  Provided further, That a State or subdivision thereof 
may use up to 5 percent of its allocation for administrative costs:  
Provided further, That in administering the funds under this heading, 
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may waive, or specify 
alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or 
regulation that the Secretary administers in connection with the 
obligation by the Secretary or the use by the recipient of these funds 
(except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, 
labor standards, and the environment), if the Secretary finds that good 
cause exists for the waiver or alternative requirement and such waiver 
or alternative requirement would not be inconsistent with the overall 
purpose of title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 
1974:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding the preceding proviso, 
recipients of funds provided under this heading that use such funds to 
supplement Federal assistance provided under section 402, 403, 404, 
406, 407, or 502 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may adopt, without 
review or public comment, any environmental review, approval, or permit 
performed by a Federal agency, and such adoption shall satisfy the 
responsibilities of the recipient with respect to such environmental 
review, approval or permit:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
section 104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 
(42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)), the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request 
for release of funds and certification, immediately approve the release 
of funds for an activity or project assisted under this heading if the 
recipient has adopted an environmental review, approval or permit under 
the preceding proviso or the activity or project is categorically 
excluded from review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.):  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall publish via notice in the Federal Register any waiver, or 
alternative requirement, to any statute or regulation that the 
Secretary administers pursuant to title I of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days before the effective date 
of such waiver or alternative requirement:  Provided further, That 
amounts provided under this section shall be designated by Congress as 
being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (b) Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, 
remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development for administrative costs of the Office of Community 
Planning and Development associated with funds appropriated to the 
Department for specific disaster relief and related purposes and 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act, including information technology costs 
and costs for administering and overseeing such specific disaster 
related funds, shall be transferred to the Program Office Salaries and 
Expenses, Community Planning and Development account for the 
Department, shall remain available until expended, and may be used for 
such administrative costs for administering any funds appropriated to 
the Department for any disaster relief and related purposes in any 
prior or future act, notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds 
were appropriated:  Provided, That the amounts transferred pursuant to 
this section that were previously designated by Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a Concurrent Resolution on the Budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act are designated 
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 and shall be transferred only if the President subsequently 
so designates the entire transfer and transmits such designation to the 
Congress.
    (c) This section shall become effective immediately upon enactment 
of this Act.
    This division may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2017''.

                    DIVISION D--RESCISSIONS OF FUNDS

    Sec. 101. (a) Of the unobligated balances available from prior year 
appropriations under the heading ``Department of Commerce, Economic 
Development Administration, Economic Development Assistance Programs'' 
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the 
Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, $10,000,000 is rescinded 
immediately upon enactment of this Act:  Provided, That such amounts 
are designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.
    (b) Of the unobligated balances available from amounts provided 
under the heading ``Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, Operations, Research, and Facilities'' in 
title II of Public Law 111-212 for responding to economic impacts of 
fisherman and fishery dependent businesses, $13,000,000 is rescinded 
immediately upon enactment of this Act:  Provided, That such amounts 
are designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.
    (c) Of the unobligated balances available from amounts provided 
under the heading ``Department of Homeland Security, Office of the 
Secretary and Executive Management'' in Public Law 109-148, $279,045 is 
rescinded immediately upon enactment of this Act:  Provided, That such 
amounts are designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (d) Of the unobligated balances available under the heading 
``Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, 
Salaries and Expenses'' from emergency funds in Public Law 107-206 and 
earlier laws transferred to the Department of Homeland Security when it 
was created in 2003, $39,246 is rescinded immediately upon enactment of 
this Act:  Provided, That such amounts are designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (e) Of the unobligated balances available from amounts provided 
under the heading ``Department of Homeland Security, United States 
Coast Guard, Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements'' in Public 
Law 110-329, Public Law 109-148 and Public Law 109-234, $48,075,920 is 
rescinded immediately upon enactment of this Act:  Provided, That such 
amounts are designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (f) Of the unobligated balances available under the heading 
``Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency, 
Administrative and Regional Operations'' in Public Law 109-234, 
$731,790 is rescinded immediately upon enactment of this Act:  
Provided, That such amounts are designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (g) Of the unobligated amounts made available under section 
1323(c)(1) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 
18043(c)(1)), $168,100,000 is rescinded immediately upon enactment of 
this Act.
    (h) Of the unobligated balances available under the heading 
``Operating Expenses'' in title IX of the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J 
of Public Law 113-235), $7,522,000 is rescinded immediately upon 
enactment of this Act:  Provided, That such amounts are designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.
    (i) Of the unobligated balances of appropriations made available 
under the heading ``Bilateral Economic Assistance, Funds Appropriated 
to the President'' in title IX of the Department of State, Foreign 
Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J 
of Public Law 113-235), $109,478,000 is rescinded immediately upon 
enactment of this Act:  Provided, That such amounts are designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.
    (j) Of the unobligated balances available from amounts provided 
under the heading ``Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation 
Administration, Facilities and Equipment'' in Public Law 109-148, 
$4,384,920 is rescinded immediately upon enactment of this Act:  
Provided, That such amounts are designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (k) Of the unobligated balances available from amounts provided 
under the heading ``Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation 
Administration, Facilities and Equipment'' in Public Law 102-368, 
$990,277 is rescinded immediately upon enactment of this Act:  
Provided, That such amounts are designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    (l) Of the unobligated balances available to the Department of 
Transportation from amounts provided under section 108 of Public Law 
101-130, $37,400,000 is rescinded immediately upon enactment of this 
Act:  Provided, That such amounts are designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
