[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1656 Reported in Senate (RS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 560
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 1656

                          [Report No. 114-302]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 28, 2015

Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

                             July 13, 2016

               Reported by Mr. Johnson, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To provide for additional resources for the Secret Service, and to 
               improve protections for restricted areas.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Secret Service Improvements 
Act of 2015''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 2. PRESIDENTIAL APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR OF THE SECRET 
              SERVICE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 3056 of title 18, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(h) The Director of the Secret Service shall be 
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate. The Director of the Secret Service is the head of the Secret 
Service.''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 3. RESTRICTED BUILDING OR GROUNDS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 1752(a) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or'' at the 
        end;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``or'' at the 
        end; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) by inserting after paragraph (4) the 
        following:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(5) knowingly, and with the intent to enter a 
        restricted building or grounds, causes any object to enter any 
        restricted building or grounds, when, or so that, such object, 
        in fact, impedes or disrupts the orderly conduct of government 
        business or official functions;''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 4. THREATS AGAINST FORMER VICE PRESIDENTS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 879(a)(4) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``section 3056(a)(6)'' and inserting ``paragraph 
(6) or (8) of section 3056(a)''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 5. INCREASED TRAINING.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Beginning in the first full fiscal year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Secret Service shall 
increase the annual number of hours spent training by officers and 
agents of the Secret Service, including officers of the United States 
Secret Service Uniformed Division established under section 3056A of 
title 18, United States Code and agents operating pursuant to section 
3056 of title 18, United States Code, including joint training between 
the two.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 6. TRAINING FACILITIES.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    The Director of the Secret Service is authorized to 
construct facilities at the Rowley Training Center necessary to improve 
the training of officers of the United States Secret Service Uniformed 
Division established under section 3056A of title 18, United States 
Code and agents of the United States Secret Service, operating pursuant 
to section 3056 of title 18, United States Code.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 7. HIRING OF ADDITIONAL OFFICERS AND AGENTS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    The Director of the Secret Service is authorized to hire 
not fewer than--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) 200 additional officers for the United States 
        Secret Service Uniformed Division established under section 
        3056A of title 18, United States Code; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) 85 additional agents for the United States 
        Secret Service Presidential Protective Detail, operating 
        pursuant to section 3056 of title 18, United States 
        Code.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 8. EVALUATION OF VULNERABILITIES AND THREATS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    (a) In General.--The Director of the Secret Service shall 
devise and adopt improved procedures for evaluating vulnerabilities in 
the security of the White House and threats to persons protected by the 
Secret Service, including threats posed by unmanned aerial systems or 
explosive devices.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Secret Service shall report 
on the implementation of subsection (a) to--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
        Representatives;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
        Senate;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
        House of Representatives;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) the Committee on Oversight and Government 
        Reform of the House of Representatives.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 9. EVALUATION OF USE OF TECHNOLOGY.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    (a) In General.--The Director of the Secret Service, in 
consultation with the Under Secretary for Science and Technology of the 
Department of Homeland Security, and other experts, shall devise and 
adopt improved procedures for--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) evaluating the ways in which technology may be 
        used to improve the security of the White House and the 
        response to threats to persons protected by the Secret Service; 
        and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) retaining evidence pertaining to the duties 
        referred to in paragraph (1) for an extended period of 
        time.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Secret Service shall report 
on the implementation of subsection (a) to--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
        Representatives;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
        Senate;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
        House of Representatives;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) the Committee on Oversight and Government 
        Reform of the House of Representatives.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 10. EVALUATION OF USE OF ADDITIONAL WEAPONRY.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    The Director of the Secret Service shall evaluate the 
practicability of equipping agents and officers with weapons other than 
those provided to officers and agents of the Secret Service as of the 
date of enactment of this Act, including nonlethal weapons.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 11. SECURITY COSTS FOR SECONDARY RESIDENCES.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    (a) In General.--The Presidential Protection Assistance 
Act of 1976 (18 U.S.C. 3056 note) is amended by striking section 4 and 
inserting the following:</DELETED>

<DELETED>``SEC. 4. NOTIFICATION REGARDING EXPENDITURES ON NON-
              GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTIES.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    ``The Secret Service shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate of any expenditures for 
permanent facilities, equipment, and services to secure any non-
Governmental property in addition to the one non-Governmental property 
designated by each protectee under subsection (a) or (b) of section 
3.''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Conforming Amendments.--The Presidential Protection 
Assistance Act of 1976 (18 U.S.C. 3056 note), as amended by this Act, 
is further amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in section 3(b), by striking ``any 
        expenditures by the Secret Service'' and all that follows 
        through ``imposed under section 4'' and inserting ``any 
        expenditures by the Secret Service for permanent facilities, 
        equipment, and services to secure the non-Governmental property 
        previously designated under subsection (a) are subject to the 
        requirements set forth in section 4''; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) in section 5(c), by striking ``within the 
        limitations imposed under section 4''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 12. ESTABLISHMENT OF ETHICS PROGRAM OFFICE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Subject to the oversight of the Office of Chief Counsel of 
the United States Secret Service, the Director of the Secret Service 
shall establish an Ethics Program Office, consisting of a minimum of 
two employees, to administer the provisions of the Ethics in Government 
Act of 1978, as amended, and to provide increased training to employees 
of the United States Secret Service.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 13. SENSE OF CONGRESS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    It is the sense of Congress that an assessment made by the 
Secretary of Homeland Security or the Director of the Secret Service 
with regard to physical security of the White House and attendant 
grounds, and any security-related enhancements thereto should be 
accorded substantial deference by the National Capital Planning 
Commission, the Commission of Fine Arts, and any other relevant 
entities.</DELETED>

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Secret Service Improvements Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. RESTRICTED BUILDING OR GROUNDS.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to criminalize 
knowingly throwing, operating, or placing an autonomous or remotely 
operated vehicle or dangerous weapon in a restricted building or 
grounds and to provide additional clarification as to what constitutes 
a restricted building or grounds.
    (b) Amendment.--Section 1752 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by adding ``or'' at the end; 
                and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
            ``(5) knowingly causes any autonomous or remotely operated 
        vehicle or dangerous weapon to enter any restricted building or 
        grounds, with the intent for such autonomous or remotely 
        operated vehicle or dangerous weapon to enter a restricted 
        building or grounds, when, or so that, such autonomous or 
        remotely operated vehicle or dangerous weapon, in fact, impedes 
        or disrupts the orderly conduct of Government business or 
        official functions;'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking subparagraph (A) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(A) during and in relation to the offense, a 
                deadly or dangerous weapon or firearm is used, carried, 
                or otherwise enters the restricted building or grounds; 
                or''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and 
                (C) as clauses (i), (ii), and (iv), respectively, and 
                adjusting the margins accordingly;
                    (B) in the matter preceding clause (i), as 
                redesignated, by striking ``grounds' means'' and 
                inserting the following: ``grounds'--
                    ``(A) means'';
                    (C) in clause (ii), as redesignated, by striking 
                ``or'' at the end;
                    (D) by inserting after clause (ii), as 
                redesignated, the following:
                            ``(iii) of a building or grounds that the 
                        President or other person protected by the 
                        Secret Service has designated as a non-
                        Governmental property in accordance with the 
                        Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976 
                        (18 U.S.C. 3056 note); or''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) includes the airspace above any posted, 
                cordoned off, or otherwise restricted area described in 
                subparagraph (A); and''.

SEC. 3. THREATS AGAINST FORMER VICE PRESIDENTS.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to authorize the 
United States Secret Service to investigate threats against former Vice 
Presidents and their families for the duration of their protection by 
the United States Secret Service.
    (b) Amendments.--Section 879 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) 
                as paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) a former Vice President or a member of the immediate 
        family of a former Vice President;''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``subsection (a)(1)'' and 
                        inserting ``paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
                        subsection (a)''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``the wife of a former 
                        President during his lifetime, the widow of a 
                        former President until her death or remarriage, 
                        and minor children of a former President'' and 
                        inserting ``the spouse of a former President or 
                        former Vice President during the lifetime of 
                        the former President or former Vice President, 
                        as the case may be, the widow or widower of a 
                        former President or former Vice President until 
                        the death or remarriage of the widow or 
                        widower, and minor children of a former 
                        President or former Vice President''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``subsection 
                (a)(2) and (a)(3)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (3) and 
                (4) of subsection (a)''.

SEC. 4. INCREASED TRAINING.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to require increased 
training for United States Secret Service Protective Division Agents 
and Uniformed Division Officers.
    (b) Requirement.--Beginning in the first full fiscal year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Secret Service shall 
increase the annual number of hours spent training by officers and 
agents of the United States Secret Service, including officers of the 
United States Secret Service Uniformed Division established under 
section 3056A of title 18, United States Code, and agents operating 
pursuant to section 3056 of title 18, United States Code, including 
joint training between the two. The increased training hours required 
under this subsection shall include, at a minimum, the recommendations 
for training described in the United States Secret Service Protective 
Mission Panel Report, released on December 15, 2014.

SEC. 5. TRAINING FACILITIES.

    The Director of the Secret Service is authorized to construct 
facilities at the Rowley Training Center necessary to improve the 
training of officers of the United States Secret Service Uniformed 
Division established under section 3056A of title 18, United States 
Code, and agents of the United States Secret Service, operating 
pursuant to section 3056 of title 18, United States Code.

SEC. 6. HIRING OF ADDITIONAL OFFICERS AND AGENTS.

    The Director of the Secret Service is authorized to hire the number 
of officers for the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division and 
agents for the United States Secret Service Presidential Protective 
Detail necessary to satisfy the staffing recommendations made by the 
United States Secret Service Protective Mission Panel Report, issued on 
December 15, 2014.

SEC. 7. EVALUATION OF VULNERABILITIES AND THREATS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall devise 
and adopt improved procedures for identifying, evaluating, and 
addressing vulnerabilities in the security of the White House and 
threats to persons protected by the United States Secret Service, 
including threats posed by unmanned aerial systems or explosive 
devices.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall report on the 
implementation of subsection (a) to--
            (1) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
            (3) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (4) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the 
        House of Representatives; and
            (5) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 8. EVALUATION OF USE OF TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the Secret Service, in 
coordination with the Under Secretary for Science and Technology of the 
Department of Homeland Security, and other experts, shall devise and 
adopt improved procedures for--
            (1) evaluating ways in which technology may be used to 
        improve the security of the White House and the response to 
        threats to persons protected by the United States Secret 
        Service; and
            (2) retaining evidence pertaining to the duties referred to 
        in paragraph (1) for an appropriate period of time.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Director of the Secret Service shall report on the 
implementation of subsection (a) to--
            (1) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
            (3) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (4) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the 
        House of Representatives; and
            (5) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 9. EVALUATION OF USE OF ADDITIONAL WEAPONRY.

    The Director of the Secret Service--
            (1) shall evaluate the practicability of equipping agents 
        and officers with nonlethal weapons in addition to those 
        provided to officers and agents of the United States Secret 
        Service as of the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) may evaluate the practicability of equipping agents and 
        officers with weapons beyond those provided to officers and 
        agents of the United States Secret Service as of the date of 
        enactment of this Act.

SEC. 10. SECURITY COSTS FOR SECONDARY RESIDENCES.

    (a) In General.--The Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976 
(18 U.S.C. 3056 note) is amended by striking section 4 and inserting 
the following:

``SEC. 4. NOTIFICATION REGARDING EXPENDITURES ON NON-GOVERNMENTAL 
              PROPERTIES.

    ``The Secret Service shall notify the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House and Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on the Judiciary of 
the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the 
House of Representatives, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
House of Representatives of any expenditures for permanent facilities, 
equipment, and services to secure any non-Governmental property in 
addition to the one non-Governmental property designated by each 
protectee under subsection (a) or (b) of section 3.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--The Presidential Protection Assistance 
Act of 1976 (18 U.S.C. 3056 note), as amended by this Act, is further 
amended--
            (1) in section 3(b), by striking ``any expenditures by the 
        Secret Service'' and all that follows through ``imposed under 
        section 4'' and inserting ``any expenditures by the Secret 
        Service for permanent facilities, equipment, and services to 
        secure the non-Governmental property previously designated 
        under subsection (a) are subject to the requirements set forth 
        in section 4''; and
            (2) in section 5(c), by striking ``within the limitations 
        imposed under section 4''.

SEC. 11. ESTABLISHMENT OF ETHICS PROGRAM OFFICE.

    Subject to the oversight of the Designated Agency Ethics Official 
of the Department of Homeland Security, and in accordance with the 
regulations under the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), 
there shall be established an Ethics Program Office in the Office of 
the Chief Counsel of the United States Secret Service, which shall 
ensure compliance with the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.).

SEC. 12. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION.

    Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit a report to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives, the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, that 
contains a review of the implementation of this Act, and the amendments 
made by this Act, and an evaluation of the progress of the United 
States Secret Service in implementing recommendations outlined in the 
United States Secret Service Protective Mission Panel Report.
                                                       Calendar No. 560

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 1656

                          [Report No. 114-302]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  To provide for additional resources for the Secret Service, and to 
               improve protections for restricted areas.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 13, 2016

                       Reported with an amendment
