[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 647 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 647

  To amend title XII of the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize 
         certain trauma care programs, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 2, 2015

 Mr. Burgess (for himself and Mr. Gene Green of Texas) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                                Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title XII of the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize 
         certain trauma care programs, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Access to Life-Saving Trauma Care 
for All Americans Act''.

SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF TRAUMA AND EMERGENCY CARE PROGRAMS.

    (a) Trauma Center Care Grants.--Section 1245 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d-45) is amended in the first sentence--
            (1) by striking ``2009, and such'' and inserting ``2009, 
        such''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``, and $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 
        through 2020''.
    (b) Trauma Service Availability Grants.--Section 1282 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d-82) is amended by striking ``2015'' 
and inserting ``2020''.

SEC. 3. ALIGNMENT OF PROGRAMS UNDER ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR 
              PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE.

    Section 2811(c)(2)(F) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300hh-10(c)(2)(F)) is amended by striking ``trauma care under parts A 
through C of title XII'' and inserting ``trauma care under parts A 
through D of title XII and part H of such title''.

SEC. 4. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS RELATING TO TRAUMA CENTER GRANTS.

    (a) Clarification on Eligible Trauma Centers.--Section 1241(a) of 
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d-41(a)) is amended by 
striking ``qualified public, nonprofit Indian Health Service, Indian 
tribal, and urban Indian trauma centers'' and inserting ``qualified 
public trauma centers, qualified nonprofit trauma centers, and 
qualified Indian Health Service, Indian tribal, and urban Indian trauma 
centers''.
    (b) Trauma Center Grants Qualifications for Substantial 
Uncompensated Care Costs.--Section 1241(b)(3)(B) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d-41(b)(3)(B)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``35'' and inserting ``30''; 
        and
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``50'' and inserting 
        ``40''.
    (c) Clarification Relating to Trauma Center Grants.--The heading 
for part D of title XII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300d-41 et seq.) is amended to read as follows:

                      ``PART D--TRAUMA CENTERS''.

                                 <all>
