[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5394 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 472
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5394

                          [Report No. 114-606]

   Making appropriations for the Departments of Transportation, and 
Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 7, 2016

  Mr. Diaz-Balart, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
following bill; which was committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   Making appropriations for the Departments of Transportation, and 
Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Transportation, and Housing and 
Urban Development, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2017, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                      DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                        Office of the Secretary

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, 
$112,000,000, of which not to exceed $2,758,000 shall be available for 
the immediate Office of the Secretary; not to exceed $1,040,000 shall 
be available for the immediate Office of the Deputy Secretary; not to 
exceed $20,772,000 shall be available for the Office of the General 
Counsel; not to exceed $10,033,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy; not to exceed 
$14,019,000 shall be available for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Budget and Programs; not to exceed $2,546,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental 
Affairs; not to exceed $29,356,000 shall be available for the Office of 
the Assistant Secretary for Administration; not to exceed $2,142,000 
shall be available for the Office of Public Affairs; not to exceed 
$1,760,000 shall be available for the Office of the Executive 
Secretariat; not to exceed $11,089,000 shall be available for the 
Office of Intelligence, Security, and Emergency Response; and not to 
exceed $16,485,000 shall be available for the Office of the Chief 
Information Officer: Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation is 
authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office of the Office 
of the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the Secretary: 
Provided further, That no appropriation for any office shall be 
increased or decreased by more than 5 percent by all such transfers: 
Provided further, That notice of any change in funding greater than 5 
percent shall be submitted for approval to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations: Provided  further, That not to exceed 
$60,000 shall be for allocation within the Department for official 
reception and representation expenses as the Secretary may determine: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
excluding fees authorized in Public Law 107-71, there may be credited 
to this appropriation up to $2,500,000 in funds received in user fees: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided in this Act shall be 
available for the position of Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.

                        research and technology

    For necessary expenses related to the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Research and Technology, $13,000,000, of which $8,218,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That there 
may be credited to this appropriation, to be available until expended, 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for training: 
Provided further, That any reference in law, regulation, judicial 
proceedings, or elsewhere to the Research and Innovative Technology 
Administration shall continue to be deemed to be a reference to the 
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research and Technology of the 
Department of Transportation.

                  national infrastructure investments

     For capital investments in surface transportation infrastructure, 
$450,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2020: Provided, 
That the Secretary of Transportation shall distribute funds provided 
under this heading as discretionary grants to be awarded to a State, 
local government, transit agency, or a collaboration among such 
entities on a competitive basis for projects that will have a 
significant impact on the Nation, a metropolitan area, or a region: 
Provided further, That projects eligible for funding provided under 
this heading shall include, but not be limited to, highway or bridge 
projects eligible under title 23, United States Code; public 
transportation projects eligible under chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code; passenger and freight rail transportation projects; and 
port infrastructure investments (including inland port infrastructure 
and land ports of entry): Provided further, That the Secretary may use 
up to 20 percent of the funds made available under this heading for the 
purpose of paying the subsidy and administrative costs of projects 
eligible for Federal credit assistance under chapter 6 of title 23, 
United States Code, if the Secretary finds that such use of the funds 
would advance the purposes of this paragraph: Provided further, That in 
distributing funds provided under this heading, the Secretary shall 
take such measures so as to ensure an equitable geographic distribution 
of funds, an appropriate balance in addressing the needs of urban and 
rural areas, and the investment in a variety of transportation modes: 
Provided further, That a grant funded under this heading shall be not 
less than $5,000,000 and not greater than $100,000,000: Provided 
further, That not more than 20 percent of the funds made available 
under this heading may be awarded to projects in a single State: 
Provided further, That the Federal share of the costs for which an 
expenditure is made under this heading shall be, at the option of the 
recipient, up to 80 percent: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
give priority to projects that require a contribution of Federal funds 
in order to complete an overall financing package: Provided further, 
That not less than 20 percent of the funds provided under this heading 
shall be for projects located in rural areas: Provided further, That 
for projects located in rural areas, the minimum grant size shall be 
$1,000,000 and the Secretary may increase the Federal share of costs 
above 80 percent: Provided further, That projects conducted using funds 
provided under this heading must comply with the requirements of 
subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall conduct a new competition to select 
the grants and credit assistance awarded under this heading: Provided 
further, That the Secretary may retain up to $20,000,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading, and may transfer portions of those funds 
to the Administrators of the Federal Highway Administration, the 
Federal Transit Administration, the Federal Railroad Administration and 
the Maritime Administration, to fund the award and oversight of grants 
and credit assistance made under the National Infrastructure 
Investments program.

     national surface transportation and innovative finance bureau

    For necessary expenses for the establishment and administration of 
a new National Surface Transportation and Innovative Finance Bureau 
(the Bureau) within the Office of the Secretary of Transportation, 
$3,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation shall use such amount for the necessary 
expenses to establish the Bureau and to fulfill the responsibilities of 
the Bureau, as detailed in section 9001 of the Fixing America's Surface 
Transportation (FAST) Act (Public Law 114-94) (49 U.S.C. 116).

                      financial management capital

    For necessary expenses for upgrading and enhancing the Department 
of Transportation's financial systems and re-engineering business 
processes, $4,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2018.

                       cyber security initiatives

    For necessary expenses for cyber security initiatives, including 
necessary upgrades to wide area network and information technology 
infrastructure, improvement of network perimeter controls and identity 
management, testing and assessment of information technology against 
business, security, and other requirements, implementation of Federal 
cyber security initiatives and information infrastructure enhancements, 
and implementation of enhanced security controls on network devices, 
$15,000,000, to remain available through September 30, 2018.

                         office of civil rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $9,751,000.

           transportation planning, research, and development

    For necessary expenses for conducting transportation planning, 
research, systems development, development activities, and making 
grants, to remain available until expended, $12,000,000: Provided, That 
of such amount, $3,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses of the 
Interagency Infrastructure Permitting Improvement Center (IIPIC): 
Provided further, That there may be transferred to this appropriation, 
to remain available until expended, amounts from other Federal agencies 
for expenses incurred under this heading for IIPIC activities not 
related to transportation infrastructure: Provided further, That the 
tools and analysis developed by the IIPIC shall be available to other 
Federal agencies for the permitting and review of major infrastructure 
projects not related to transportation only to the extent that other 
Federal agencies provide funding to the Department as provided for 
under the previous proviso.

                          working capital fund

    For necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays of 
the Working Capital Fund, not to exceed $190,389,000 shall be paid from 
appropriations made available to the Department of Transportation: 
Provided, That such services shall be provided on a competitive basis 
to entities within the Department of Transportation: Provided further, 
That the above limitation on operating expenses shall not apply to non-
DOT entities: Provided further, That no funds appropriated in this Act 
to an agency of the Department shall be transferred to the Working 
Capital Fund without majority approval of the Working Capital Fund 
Steering Committee and approval of the Secretary: Provided further, 
That no assessments may be levied against any program, budget activity, 
subactivity or project funded by this Act unless notice of such 
assessments and the basis therefor are presented to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations and are approved by such 
Committees.

               minority business resource center program

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $339,000, as authorized by 49 
U.S.C. 332: Provided, That such costs, including the cost of modifying 
such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, 
not to exceed $18,367,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
guaranteed loan program, $602,000.

       small and disadvantaged business utilization and outreach

    For necessary expenses for small and disadvantaged business 
utilization and outreach activities, $4,646,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018: Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, 
these funds may be used for business opportunities related to any mode 
of transportation.

                        payments to air carriers

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    In addition to funds made available from any other source to carry 
out the essential air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731 through 
41742, $150,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund, to remain available until expended: Provided, That in determining 
between or among carriers competing to provide service to a community, 
the Secretary may consider the relative subsidy requirements of the 
carriers: Provided further, That basic essential air service minimum 
requirements shall not include the 15-passenger capacity requirement 
under subsection 41732(b)(3) of title 49, United States Code: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act or any other Act shall be 
used to enter into a new contract with a community located less than 40 
miles from the nearest small hub airport before the Secretary has 
negotiated with the community over a local cost share: Provided 
further, That amounts authorized to be distributed for the essential 
air service program under subsection 41742(b) of title 49, United 
States Code, shall be made available immediately from amounts otherwise 
provided to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration: 
Provided further, That the Administrator may reimburse such amounts 
from fees credited to the account established under section 45303 of 
title 49, United States Code.

                       administrative provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Department of Transportation may be obligated for the Office of the 
Secretary of Transportation to approve assessments or reimbursable 
agreements pertaining to funds appropriated to the modal 
administrations in this Act, except for activities underway on the date 
of enactment of this Act, unless such assessments or agreements have 
completed the normal reprogramming process for Congressional 
notification.
    Sec. 102.  Notwithstanding section 3324 of title 31, United States 
Code, in addition to authority provided by section 327 of title 49, 
United States Code, the Department's Working Capital Fund is hereby 
authorized to provide payments in advance to vendors that are necessary 
to carry out the Federal transit pass transportation fringe benefit 
program under Executive Order 13150 and section 3049 of Public Law 109-
59: Provided, That the Department shall include adequate safeguards in 
the contract with the vendors to ensure timely and high-quality 
performance under the contract.
    Sec. 103.  The Secretary shall post on the Web site of the 
Department of Transportation a schedule of all meetings of the Credit 
Council, including the agenda for each meeting, and require the Credit 
Council to record the decisions and actions of each meeting.

                    Federal Aviation Administration

                               operations

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, including operations and research activities 
related to commercial space transportation, administrative expenses for 
research and development, establishment of air navigation facilities, 
the operation (including leasing) and maintenance of aircraft, 
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts and maps sold to the 
public, lease or purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement 
only, in addition to amounts made available by Public Law 112-95, 
$9,994,352,000 of which $9,049,000,000 shall be derived from the 
Airport and Airway Trust Fund, of which not to exceed $7,539,785,000 
shall be available for air traffic organization activities; not to 
exceed $1,291,982,000 shall be available for aviation safety 
activities; not to exceed $19,826,000 shall be available for commercial 
space transportation activities; not to exceed $770,342,000 shall be 
available for finance and management activities; not to exceed 
$60,155,000 shall be available for NextGen and operations planning 
activities; not to exceed $107,161,000 shall be available for security 
and hazardous materials safety; and not to exceed $205,101,000 shall be 
available for staff offices: Provided, That not to exceed 2 percent of 
any budget activity, except for aviation safety budget activity, may be 
transferred to any budget activity under this heading: Provided 
further, That no transfer may increase or decrease any appropriation by 
more than 2 percent: Provided further, That any transfer in excess of 2 
percent shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 405 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section: 
Provided further, That not later than March 31 of each fiscal year 
hereafter, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
shall transmit to Congress an annual update to the report submitted to 
Congress in December 2004 pursuant to section 221 of Public Law 108-
176: Provided further, That the amount herein appropriated shall be 
reduced by $100,000 for each day after March 31 that such report has 
not been submitted to the Congress: Provided further, That not later 
than March 31 of each fiscal year hereafter, the Administrator shall 
transmit to Congress a companion report that describes a comprehensive 
strategy for staffing, hiring, and training flight standards and 
aircraft certification staff in a format similar to the one utilized 
for the controller staffing plan, including stated attrition estimates 
and numerical hiring goals by fiscal year: Provided further, That the 
amount herein appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for 
each day after March 31 that such report has not been submitted to 
Congress: Provided further, That funds may be used to enter into a 
grant agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting organization to 
assist in the development of aviation safety standards: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for new 
applicants for the second career training program: Provided further, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the Federal 
Aviation Administration to finalize or implement any regulation that 
would promulgate new aviation user fees not specifically authorized by 
law after the date of the enactment of this Act: Provided further, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation, as offsetting collections, 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, foreign 
authorities, other public authorities, and private sources for expenses 
incurred in the provision of agency services, including receipts for 
the maintenance and operation of air navigation facilities, and for 
issuance, renewal or modification of certificates, including airman, 
aircraft, and repair station certificates, or for tests related 
thereto, or for processing major repair or alteration forms: Provided 
further, That of the funds appropriated under this heading, not less 
than $159,000,000 shall be for the contract tower program, including 
the contract tower cost share program: Provided further, That none of 
the funds in this Act for aeronautical charting and cartography are 
available for activities conducted by, or coordinated through, the 
Working Capital Fund.

                        facilities and equipment

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
acquisition, establishment, technical support services, improvement by 
contract or purchase, and hire of national airspace systems and 
experimental facilities and equipment, as authorized under part A of 
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, including initial 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; engineering and 
service testing, including construction of test facilities and 
acquisition of necessary sites by lease or grant; construction and 
furnishing of quarters and related accommodations for officers and 
employees of the Federal Aviation Administration stationed at remote 
localities where such accommodations are not available; and the 
purchase, lease, or transfer of aircraft from funds available under 
this heading, including aircraft for aviation regulation and 
certification; to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, 
$2,838,000,000, of which $486,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2017, and $2,352,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2019: Provided, That there may be credited to this 
appropriation funds received from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources, for expenses incurred in 
the establishment, improvement, and modernization of national airspace 
systems: Provided further, That no later than March 31, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall transmit to the Congress an investment plan for 
the Federal Aviation Administration which includes funding for each 
budget line item for fiscal years 2018 through 2022, with total funding 
for each year of the plan constrained to the funding targets for those 
years as estimated and approved by the Office of Management and Budget.

                 research, engineering, and development

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, for research, 
engineering, and development, as authorized under part A of subtitle 
VII of title 49, United States Code, including construction of 
experimental facilities and acquisition of necessary sites by lease or 
grant, $167,500,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway Trust 
Fund and to remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections, 
funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other public 
authorities, and private sources, which shall be available for expenses 
incurred for research, engineering, and development.

                       grants-in-aid for airports

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                    (airport and airway trust fund)

    For liquidation of obligations incurred for grants-in-aid for 
airport planning and development, and noise compatibility planning and 
programs as authorized under subchapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter 
I of chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code, and under other law 
authorizing such obligations; for procurement, installation, and 
commissioning of runway incursion prevention devices and systems at 
airports of such title; for grants authorized under section 41743 of 
title 49, United States Code; and for inspection activities and 
administration of airport safety programs, including those related to 
airport operating certificates under section 44706 of title 49, United 
States Code, $3,750,000,000, to be derived from the Airport and Airway 
Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, That none 
of the funds under this heading shall be available for the planning or 
execution of programs the obligations for which are in excess of 
$3,350,000,000 in fiscal year 2017, notwithstanding section 47117(g) of 
title 49, United States Code: Provided further, That none of the funds 
under this heading shall be available for the replacement of baggage 
conveyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal baggage areas, or other 
airport improvements that are necessary to install bulk explosive 
detection systems: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, of funds limited under this heading, not more than 
$107,691,000 shall be obligated for administration, not less than 
$15,000,000 shall be available for the Airport Cooperative Research 
Program, not less than $31,375,000 shall be available for Airport 
Technology Research.

                       administrative provisions

    Sec. 110.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to compensate 
in excess of 600 technical staff-years under the federally funded 
research and development center contract between the Federal Aviation 
Administration and the Center for Advanced Aviation Systems Development 
during fiscal year 2017.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used to pursue or 
adopt guidelines or regulations requiring airport sponsors to provide 
to the Federal Aviation Administration without cost building 
construction, maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in airport 
sponsor-owned buildings for services relating to air traffic control, 
air navigation, or weather reporting: Provided, That the prohibition of 
funds in this section does not apply to negotiations between the agency 
and airport sponsors to achieve agreement on ``below-market'' rates for 
these items or to grant assurances that require airport sponsors to 
provide land without cost to the FAA for air traffic control 
facilities.
    Sec. 112.  The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
may reimburse amounts made available to satisfy 49 U.S.C. 41742(a)(1) 
from fees credited under 49 U.S.C. 45303 and any amount remaining in 
such account at the close of that fiscal year may be made available to 
satisfy section 41742(a)(1) for the subsequent fiscal year.
    Sec. 113.  Amounts collected under section 40113(e) of title 49, 
United States Code, shall be credited to the appropriation current at 
the time of collection, to be merged with and available for the same 
purposes of such appropriation.
    Sec. 114.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
paying premium pay under subsection 5546(a) of title 5, United States 
Code, to any Federal Aviation Administration employee unless such 
employee actually performed work during the time corresponding to such 
premium pay.
    Sec. 115.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for an employee of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
purchase a store gift card or gift certificate through use of a 
Government-issued credit card.
    Sec. 116.  None of the funds in this Act may be obligated or 
expended for retention bonuses for an employee of the Federal Aviation 
Administration without the prior written approval of the Assistant 
Secretary for Administration of the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available under this Act or any prior Act may be used to 
implement or to continue to implement any limitation on the ability of 
any owner or operator of a private aircraft to obtain, upon a request 
to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, a blocking 
of that owner's or operator's aircraft registration number from any 
display of the Federal Aviation Administration's Aircraft Situational 
Display to Industry data that is made available to the public, except 
data made available to a Government agency, for the noncommercial 
flights of that owner or operator.
    Sec. 118.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than nine political and Presidential 
appointees in the Federal Aviation Administration.
    Sec. 119.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used to increase fees pursuant to section 44721 of title 49, United 
States Code, until the FAA provides to the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations a report that justifies all fees related to 
aeronautical navigation products and explains how such fees are 
consistent with Executive Order 13642.
    Sec. 119A.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to close a 
regional operations center of the Federal Aviation Administration or 
reduce its services unless the Administrator notifies the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 90 full business days 
in advance.
    Sec. 119B.  None of the funds appropriated or limited by this Act 
may be used to change weight restrictions or prior permission rules at 
Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jersey.

                     Federal Highway Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

                          (highway trust fund)

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Not to exceed $432,547,000, together with advances and 
reimbursements received by the Federal Highway Administration, shall be 
obligated for necessary expenses for administration and operation of 
the Federal Highway Administration. In addition, not to exceed 
$3,248,000 shall be transferred to the Appalachian Regional Commission 
in accordance with section 104(a) of title 23, United States Code.

                          federal-aid highways

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    Funds available for the implementation or execution of Federal-aid 
highway and highway safety construction programs authorized under 
titles 23 and 49, United States Code, and the provisions of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act shall not exceed total obligations 
of $43,266,100,000 for fiscal year 2017: Provided, That the Secretary 
may collect and spend fees, as authorized by title 23, United States 
Code, to cover the costs of services of expert firms, including 
counsel, in the field of municipal and project finance to assist in the 
underwriting and servicing of Federal credit instruments and all or a 
portion of the costs to the Federal Government of servicing such credit 
instruments: Provided further, That such fees are available until 
expended to pay for such costs: Provided further, That such amounts are 
in addition to administrative expenses that are also available for such 
purpose, and are not subject to any obligation limitation or the 
limitation on administrative expenses under section 608 of title 23, 
United States Code.

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For the payment of obligations incurred in carrying out Federal-aid 
highway and highway safety construction programs authorized under title 
23, United States Code, $44,005,100,000 derived from the Highway Trust 
Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account), to remain available until 
expended.

       administrative provisions--federal highway administration

    Sec. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall--
            (1) not distribute from the obligation limitation for 
        Federal-aid highways--
                    (A) amounts authorized for administrative expenses 
                and programs by section 104(a) of title 23, United 
                States Code; and
                    (B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of 
                Transportation Statistics;
            (2) not distribute an amount from the obligation limitation 
        for Federal-aid highways that is equal to the unobligated 
        balance of amounts--
                    (A) made available from the Highway Trust Fund 
                (other than the Mass Transit Account) for Federal-aid 
                highway and highway safety construction programs for 
                previous fiscal years the funds for which are allocated 
                by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Secretary under 
                sections 202 or 204 of title 23, United States Code); 
                and
                    (B) for which obligation limitation was provided in 
                a previous fiscal year;
            (3) determine the proportion that--
                    (A) the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
                highways, less the aggregate of amounts not distributed 
                under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the sums authorized to be 
                appropriated for the Federal-aid highway and highway 
                safety construction programs (other than sums 
                authorized to be appropriated for provisions of law 
                described in paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection 
                (b) and sums authorized to be appropriated for section 
                119 of title 23, United States Code, equal to the 
                amount referred to in subsection (b)(12) for such 
                fiscal year), less the aggregate of the amounts not 
                distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this 
                subsection;
            (4) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2), for each of the programs (other than 
        programs to which paragraph (1) applies) that are allocated by 
        the Secretary under the Fixing America's Surface Transportation 
        Act and title 23, United States Code, or apportioned by the 
        Secretary under sections 202 or 204 of that title, by 
        multiplying--
                    (A) the proportion determined under paragraph (3); 
                by
                    (B) the amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
                each such program for such fiscal year; and
            (5) distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid 
        highways, less the aggregate amounts not distributed under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under 
        paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and highway safety 
        construction programs that are apportioned by the Secretary 
        under title 23, United States Code (other than the amounts 
        apportioned for the National Highway Performance Program in 
        section 119 of title 23, United States Code, that are exempt 
        from the limitation under subsection (b)(12) and the amounts 
        apportioned under sections 202 and 204 of that title) in the 
        proportion that--
                    (A) amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
                programs that are apportioned under title 23, United 
                States Code, to each State for such fiscal year; bears 
                to
                    (B) the total of the amounts authorized to be 
                appropriated for the programs that are apportioned 
                under title 23, United States Code, to all States for 
                such fiscal year.
    (b) Exceptions From Obligation Limitation.--The obligation 
limitation for Federal-aid highways shall not apply to obligations 
under or for--
            (1) section 125 of title 23, United States Code;
            (2) section 147 of the Surface Transportation Assistance 
        Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144 note; 92 Stat. 2714);
            (3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1981 (95 
        Stat. 1701);
            (4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of the Surface 
        Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
            (5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of the Surface 
        Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 
        (101 Stat. 198);
            (6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Intermodal Surface 
        Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
            (7) section 157 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect on June 8, 1998);
            (8) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect for fiscal years 1998 through 2004, but only in an 
        amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
            (9) Federal-aid highway programs for which obligation 
        authority was made available under the Transportation Equity 
        Act for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subsequent Acts for 
        multiple years or to remain available until expended, but only 
        to the extent that the obligation authority has not lapsed or 
        been used;
            (10) section 105 of title 23, United States Code (as in 
        effect for fiscal years 2005 through 2012, but only in an 
        amount equal to $639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
            (11) section 1603 of SAFETEA-LU (23 U.S.C. 118 note; 119 
        Stat. 1248), to the extent that funds obligated in accordance 
        with that section were not subject to a limitation on 
        obligations at the time at which the funds were initially made 
        available for obligation; and
            (12) section 119 of title 23, United States Code (but, for 
        each of fiscal years 2013 through 2017, only in an amount equal 
        to $639,000,000).
    (c) Redistribution of Unused Obligation Authority.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall, after August 1 of such fiscal 
year--
            (1) revise a distribution of the obligation limitation made 
        available under subsection (a) if an amount distributed cannot 
        be obligated during that fiscal year; and
            (2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those States able to 
        obligate amounts in addition to those previously distributed 
        during that fiscal year, giving priority to those States having 
        large unobligated balances of funds apportioned under sections 
        144 (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
        Public Law 112-141) and 104 of title 23, United States Code.
    (d) Applicability of Obligation Limitations to Transportation 
Research Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways shall apply to 
        contract authority for transportation research programs carried 
        out under--
                    (A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States Code; and
                    (B) title VI of the Fixing America's Surface 
                Transportation Act.
            (2) Exception.--Obligation authority made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal 
                years; and
                    (B) be in addition to the amount of any limitation 
                imposed on obligations for Federal-aid highway and 
                highway safety construction programs for future fiscal 
                years.
    (e) Redistribution of Certain Authorized Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        distribution of obligation limitation under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall distribute to the States any funds (excluding 
        funds authorized for the program under section 202 of title 23, 
        United States Code) that--
                    (A) are authorized to be appropriated for such 
                fiscal year for Federal-aid highway programs; and
                    (B) the Secretary determines will not be allocated 
                to the States (or will not be apportioned to the States 
                under section 204 of title 23, United States Code), and 
                will not be available for obligation, for such fiscal 
                year because of the imposition of any obligation 
                limitation for such fiscal year.
            (2) Ratio.--Funds shall be distributed under paragraph (1) 
        in the same proportion as the distribution of obligation 
        authority under subsection (a)(5).
            (3) Availability.--Funds distributed to each State under 
        paragraph (1) shall be available for any purpose described in 
        section 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds received by the 
Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products, for 
necessary expenses incurred pursuant to chapter 63 of title 49, United 
States Code, may be credited to the Federal-aid highways account for 
the purpose of reimbursing the Bureau for such expenses: Provided, That 
such funds shall be subject to the obligation limitation for Federal-
aid highway and highway safety construction programs.
    Sec. 122.  Not less than 15 days prior to waiving, under his or her 
statutory authority, any Buy America requirement for Federal-aid 
highways projects, the Secretary of Transportation shall make an 
informal public notice and comment opportunity on the intent to issue 
such waiver and the reasons therefor: Provided, That the Secretary 
shall provide an annual report to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations on any waivers granted under the Buy America 
requirements.
    Sec. 123.  None of the funds in this Act to the Department of 
Transportation may be used to provide credit assistance unless not less 
than 3 days before any application approval to provide credit 
assistance under sections 603 and 604 of title 23, United States Code, 
the Secretary of Transportation provides notification in writing to the 
following committees: the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations; the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives: Provided, That such notification shall include, but 
not be limited to, the name of the project sponsor; a description of 
the project; whether credit assistance will be provided as a direct 
loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit; and the amount of credit 
assistance.

              Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration

              motor carrier safety operations and programs

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the implementation, 
execution and administration of motor carrier safety operations and 
programs pursuant to section 31110 of title 49, United States Code, as 
amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
$277,200,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
Mass Transit Account), together with advances and reimbursements 
received by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the sum of 
which shall remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
available for implementation, execution or administration of motor 
carrier safety operations and programs authorized under title 49, 
United States Code, shall not exceed total obligations of $277,200,000 
for ``Motor Carrier Safety Operations and Programs'' for fiscal year 
2017, of which $9,180,000, to remain available for obligation until 
September 30, 2019, is for the research and technology program.

                      motor carrier safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out sections 31102, 
31103, 31104, and 31313 of title 49, United States Code, as amended by 
the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, $367,000,000, to be 
derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit 
Account) and to remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
available for the implementation or execution of motor carrier safety 
programs shall not exceed total obligations of $367,000,000 in fiscal 
year 2017 for ``Motor Carrier Safety Grants''; of which $292,600,000 
shall be available for the motor carrier safety assistance program, 
$31,200,000 shall be available for commercial driver's license program 
implementation program, $42,200,000 shall be available for the high 
priority activities program, and $1,000,000 shall be available for the 
Commercial Motor Vehicle Operators grant program.

 administrative provisions--federal motor carrier safety administration

    Sec. 130.  Funds appropriated or limited in this Act shall be 
subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in section 350 of Public 
Law 107-87 and section 6901 of Public Law 110-28.
    Sec. 131.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration shall 
send notice of 49 CFR section 385.308 violations by certified mail, 
registered mail, or another manner of delivery, which records the 
receipt of the notice by the persons responsible for the violations.
    Sec. 132. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act or any other Act may be used to 
implement, administer, or enforce the requirement for two off-duty 
periods from 1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. under subsection (c) of section 
395.3 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, or the prohibition on 
use of more than one restart during a consecutive 168-hour period under 
subsection (d) of such section, and such provisions shall have no force 
or effect.
    (b) Restart Rule.--The 34-hour restart rule in effect on December 
26, 2011, shall be restored to full force and effect, and funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or any other Act 
shall be available to implement, administer, or enforce such rule.
    (c) Date Change.--Section 133(a) of title I of division K of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2015, Public Law 113-235, is amended 
by striking ``2015'', and inserting ``2016'', and by striking ``June 
30, 2013'', and inserting ``December 26, 2011''.
    Sec. 133.  None of the funds made available by this Act or previous 
appropriations Acts under the heading ``Motor Carrier Safety Operations 
and Programs'' shall be used to pay for costs associated with design, 
development, testing, or implementation of a wireless roadside 
inspection program until 180 days after the Secretary of Transportation 
certifies to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations that 
such program does not conflict with existing non-Federal electronic 
screening systems, create capabilities already available, or require 
additional statutory authority to incorporate generated inspection data 
into safety determinations or databases, and has restrictions to 
specifically address privacy concerns of affected motor carriers and 
operators.
    Sec. 134.  FEDERAL AUTHORITY.
    (a) In General.--Section 14501(c) of title 49, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraphs (2) and 
        (3)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (3) and (4)'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (5) as 
        paragraphs (3) through (6) respectively;
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) Additional limitations.--
                    ``(A) A State, political subdivision of a State, or 
                political authority of 2 or more States may not enact 
                or enforce a law, regulation, or other provision having 
                the force and effect of law prohibiting employees whose 
                hours of service are subject to regulation by the 
                Secretary under section 31502 from working to the full 
                extent permitted or at such times as permitted under 
                such section, or imposing any additional obligations on 
                motor carriers if such employees work to the full 
                extent or at such times as permitted under such 
                section, including any related activities regulated 
                under part 395 of title 49, Code of Federal 
                Regulations.
                    ``(B) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed 
                to limit the provisions of paragraph (1).''.
            (4) in paragraph (3) (as redesignated) by striking 
        ``Paragraph (1)--'' and inserting ``Paragraphs (1) and (2)--''; 
        and
            (5) in paragraph (4)(A) (as redesignated) by striking 
        ``Paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``Paragraphs (1) and (2)''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall have 
the force and effect as if enacted on the date of enactment of the 
Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. No. 
103-305).
    Sec. 135.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act may be used to amend, revise or 
otherwise modify by rulemaking, guidance, or interpretation the 
regulations in effect on December 4, 2015 relating to safety fitness 
determinations for motor carriers until the Inspector General of the 
Department of Transportation makes the certifications set out in 
section 5223(a) of P.L. 114-94.

             National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

                        operations and research

    For expenses necessary to discharge the functions of the Secretary, 
with respect to traffic and highway safety authorized under chapter 301 
and part C of subtitle VI of title 49, United States Code, 
$187,055,000, of which $20,000,000 shall remain available through 
September 30, 2018.

                        operations and research

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions 
of 23 U.S.C. 403, and chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code, 
$145,900,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund (other than the 
Mass Transit Account) and to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That none of the funds in this Act shall be available for the planning 
or execution of programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal 
year 2017, are in excess of $145,900,000, of which $140,700,000 shall 
be for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 403 and $5,200,000 shall be 
for the National Driver Register authorized under chapter 303 of title 
49, United States Code: Provided further, That within the $145,900,000 
obligation limitation for operations and research, $20,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018, and shall be in addition to 
the amount of any limitation imposed on obligations for future years.

                     highway traffic safety grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in carrying out provisions of 
23 U.S.C. 402, 404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act, to remain available until 
expended, $585,372,000, to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund 
(other than the Mass Transit Account): Provided, That none of the funds 
in this Act shall be available for the planning or execution of 
programs the total obligations for which, in fiscal year 2017, are in 
excess of $585,372,000 for programs authorized under 23 U.S.C. 402, 
404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface 
Transportation Act, of which $252,300,000 shall be for ``Highway Safety 
Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 402; $277,500,000 shall be for ``National 
Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 405; $29,500,000 shall be 
for ``High Visibility Enforcement Program'' under 23 U.S.C. 404; 
$26,072,000 shall be for ``Administrative Expenses'' under section 
4001(a)(6) of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act: Provided 
further, That none of these funds shall be used for construction, 
rehabilitation, or remodeling costs, or for office furnishings and 
fixtures for State, local or private buildings or structures: Provided 
further, That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available for 
``National Priority Safety Programs'' under 23 U.S.C. 405 for 
``Impaired Driving Countermeasures'' (as described in subsection (d) of 
that section) shall be available for technical assistance to the 
States: Provided further, That with respect to the ``Transfers'' 
provision under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(8), any amounts transferred to 
increase the amounts made available under section 402 shall include the 
obligation authority for such amounts: Provided further, That the 
Administrator shall notify the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations of any exercise of the authority granted under the 
previous proviso or under 23 U.S.C. 405(a)(8) within five days.

      administrative provisions--national highway traffic safety 
                             administration

    Sec. 140.  An additional $130,000 shall be made available to the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, out of the amount 
limited for section 402 of title 23, United States Code, to pay for 
travel and related expenses for State management reviews and to pay for 
core competency development training and related expenses for highway 
safety staff.
    Sec. 141.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration set in this Act shall 
not apply to obligations for which obligation authority was made 
available in previous public laws but only to the extent that the 
obligation authority has not lapsed or been used.
    Sec. 142.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to conduct or support the National Roadside Survey of Alcohol and Drug 
Use by Drivers, or to conduct or support any similar survey of alcohol 
and drug use by drivers.
    Sec. 143.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to mandate global positioning system (GPS) tracking in private 
passenger motor vehicles without providing full and appropriate 
consideration of privacy concerns under 5 U.S.C. chapter 5, subchapter 
II.

                    Federal Railroad Administration

                         safety and operations

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, not 
otherwise provided for, $207,000,000, of which $15,900,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                   railroad research and development

    For necessary expenses for railroad research and development, 
$43,100,000, to remain available until expended.

       railroad rehabilitation and improvement financing program

    The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to issue direct loans 
and loan guarantees pursuant to sections 501 through 504 of the 
Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 
94-210), as amended, such authority to exist as long as any such direct 
loan or loan guarantee is outstanding. Provided, That pursuant to 
section 502 of such Act, as amended, no new direct loans or loan 
guarantee commitments shall be made using Federal funds for the credit 
risk premium during fiscal year 2017, except for federal funds awarded 
in accordance with section 3028(c) of Public Law 114-94.

       federal-state partnership for state of good repair grants

    For necessary expenses related to Federal-State Partnership for 
State of Good Repair Grants as authorized by section 24911 of title 49, 
United States Code, $25,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That the Secretary may withhold up to one percent of the 
amount provided under this heading for the costs of project management 
oversight of grants carried out under section 24911 of title 49, United 
States Code.

     consolidated rail infrastructure and safety improvement grants

    For necessary expenses related to Consolidated Rail Infrastructure 
and Safety Improvements Grants as authorized by section 24407 of title 
49, United States Code, $25,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the Secretary may withhold up to one percent 
of the amount provided under this heading for the costs of project 
management oversight of grants carried out under section 24407 of title 
49, United States Code.

     northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger 
                              corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities associated with 
the Northeast Corridor as authorized by section 11101 (a) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act (division A of Public Law 114--
94), $420,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 percent of the funds 
provided under both this heading and the National Network Grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation heading to fund the costs of 
project management and oversight of activities authorized by section 
11101(c) of division A of Public Law 114--94: Provided further, That in 
addition to the project management oversight funds authorized under 
section 11101(c) of division A of Public Law 114--94, the Secretary may 
retain up to an additional $5,000,000 of the funds provided under this 
heading to fund expenses associated with implementing section 24905 of 
title 49, United States Code: Provided further, That of the amounts 
made available under this heading and the National Network Grants to 
the National Railroad Passenger Corporation heading, not less than 
$50,000,000 shall be made available to bring Amtrak-served facilities 
and stations into compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.

 national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation

    To enable the Secretary of Transportation to make grants to the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation for activities associated with 
the National Network as authorized by section 11101(b) of the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act (division A of Public Law 114--
94), $1,000,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
the Secretary may retain up to an additional $2,000,000 of the funds 
provided under this heading to fund expenses associated with the State-
Supported Route Committee established under 24712 of title 49, United 
States Code.

       administrative provisions--federal railroad administration

    Sec. 150.  None of the funds provided to the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation may be used to fund any overtime costs in excess 
of $35,000 for any individual employee: Provided, That the President of 
Amtrak may waive the cap set in the previous proviso for specific 
employees when the President of Amtrak determines such a cap poses a 
risk to the safety and operational efficiency of the system: Provided 
further, That the President of Amtrak shall report to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations each quarter of the calendar year 
on waivers granted to employees and amounts paid above the cap for each 
month within such quarter and delineate the reasons each waiver was 
granted: Provided further, That the President of Amtrak shall report to 
the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations by March 1, 2017, a 
summary of all overtime payments incurred by the Corporation for 2016 
and the three prior calendar years: Provided further, That such summary 
shall include the total number of employees that received waivers and 
the total overtime payments the Corporation paid to those employees 
receiving waivers for each month for 2016 and for the three prior 
calendar years.

                     Federal Transit Administration

                        administrative expenses

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Federal Transit 
Administration's programs authorized by chapter 53 of title 49, United 
States Code, $110,665,000: Provided, That none of the funds provided or 
limited in this Act may be used to create a permanent office of transit 
security under this heading: Provided further, That upon submission to 
the Congress of the fiscal year 2018 President's budget, the Secretary 
of Transportation shall transmit to Congress the annual report on New 
Starts, including proposed allocations for fiscal year 2018.

                         transit formula grants

                (liquidation of contract authorization)

                      (limitation on obligations)

                          (highway trust fund)

    For payment of obligations incurred in the Federal Public 
Transportation Assistance Program in this account, and for payment of 
obligations incurred in carrying out the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 
5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 
5340, as amended by the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
and section 20005(b) of Public Law 112-141, and sections 3006(b) and 
3028 of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, 
$10,800,000,000, to be derived from the Mass Transit Account of the 
Highway Trust Fund and to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That funds available for the implementation or execution of programs 
authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 
5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340, as amended by the Fixing 
America's Surface Transportation Act, and section 20005(b) of Public 
Law 112-141, and sections 3006(b) and 3028 of the Fixing America's 
Surface Transportation Act, shall not exceed total obligations of 
$9,733,706,043 in fiscal year 2017.

                   technical assistance and training

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5314, $5,000,000.

                       capital investment grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5309, $2,500,470,000, 
to remain available until expended.

        grants to washington metropolitan area transit authority

    For grants to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority as 
authorized under section 601 of division B of Public Law 110-432, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the 
Secretary of Transportation shall approve grants for capital and 
preventive maintenance expenditures for the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority only after receiving and reviewing a request for 
each specific project: Provided further, That prior to approving such 
grants, the Secretary shall certify that the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority is making progress to improve its safety 
management system in response to the Federal Transit Administration's 
safety inspections: Provided further, That prior to approving such 
grants, the Secretary shall certify that the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Authority is making progress toward full implementation of 
the corrective actions identified in the 2014 Financial Management 
Oversight Review Report: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
determine that the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority has 
placed the highest priority on those investments that will improve the 
safety of the system before approving such grants:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary, in order to ensure safety throughout the rail 
system, may waive the requirements of section 601(e)(1) of Division B 
of Public Law 110-432 (112 Stat. 4968).

       administrative provisions--federal transit administration

    Sec. 160.  The limitations on obligations for the programs of the 
Federal Transit Administration shall not apply to any authority under 
49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made available for obligation, or to any 
other authority previously made available for obligation.
    Sec. 161.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated or limited by this Act under the heading ``Fixed Guideway 
Capital Investment'' of the Federal Transit Administration for projects 
specified in this Act or identified in reports accompanying this Act 
not obligated by September 30, 2021, and other recoveries, shall be 
directed to projects eligible to use the funds for the purposes for 
which they were originally provided.
    Sec. 162.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
appropriated before October 1, 2016, under any section of chapter 53 of 
title 49, United States Code, that remain available for expenditure, 
may be transferred to and administered under the most recent 
appropriation heading for any such section.
    Sec. 163.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds made available in this Act shall be used to enter into a full 
funding grant agreement for a project with a New Starts share greater 
than 50 percent.
    Sec. 164. (a) Loss of Eligibility.--Except as provided in 
subsection (b), none of the funds in this or any other Act may be 
available to advance in any way a new light or heavy rail project 
towards a full funding grant agreement as defined by 49 U.S.C. 5309 for 
the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County, Texas if the 
proposed capital project is constructed on or planned to be constructed 
on Richmond Avenue west of South Shepherd Drive or on Post Oak 
Boulevard north of Richmond Avenue in Houston, Texas.
    (b) Exception for a New Election.--The Metropolitan Transit 
Authority of Harris County, Texas, may attempt to construct or 
construct a new fixed guideway capital project, including light rail, 
in the locations referred to in subsection (a) if--
            (1) voters in the jurisdiction that includes such locations 
        approve a ballot proposition that specifies routes on Richmond 
        Avenue west of South Shepherd Drive or on Post Oak Boulevard 
        north of Richmond Avenue in Houston, Texas; and
            (2) the proposed construction of such routes is part of a 
        comprehensive, multi-modal, service-area wide transportation 
        plan that includes multiple additional segments of fixed 
        guideway capital projects, including light rail for the 
        jurisdiction set forth in the ballot proposition. The ballot 
        language shall include reasonable cost estimates, sources of 
        revenue to be used and the total amount of bonded indebtedness 
        to be incurred as well as a description of each route and the 
        beginning and end point of each proposed transit project.

             Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation

    The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation is hereby 
authorized to make such expenditures, within the limits of funds and 
borrowing authority available to the Corporation, and in accord with 
law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government 
Corporation Control Act, as amended, as may be necessary in carrying 
out the programs set forth in the Corporation's budget for the current 
fiscal year.

                       operations and maintenance

                    (harbor maintenance trust fund)

    For necessary expenses to conduct the operations, maintenance, and 
capital asset renewal activities of those portions of the St. Lawrence 
Seaway owned, operated, and maintained by the Saint Lawrence Seaway 
Development Corporation, $36,028,000, to be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99-662.

                        Maritime Administration

                       maritime security program

    For necessary expenses to maintain and preserve a U.S.-flag 
merchant fleet to serve the national security needs of the United 
States, $300,000,000.

                        operations and training

    For necessary expenses of operations and training activities 
authorized by law, $175,079,000, of which $22,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for maintenance and repair of training ships 
at State Maritime Academies, and of which $6,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for National Security Multi-Mission Vessel/
School Ship Replacement program for State Maritime Academies and 
National Security, and of which $2,400,000 shall remain available 
through September 30, 2018, for the Student Incentive Program at State 
Maritime Academies, and of which $1,200,000 shall remain available 
until expended for training ship fuel assistance payments, and of which 
$11,179,000 shall remain available until expended for facilities 
maintenance and repair, equipment, and capital improvements at the 
United States Merchant Marine Academy, and of which $3,000,000 shall 
remain available through September 30, 2018, for Maritime Environment 
and Technology Assistance grants, contracts, and cooperative 
agreements: Provided, That amounts apportioned for the United States 
Merchant Marine Academy shall be available only upon allotments made 
personally by the Secretary of Transportation or the Assistant 
Secretary for Budget and Programs: Provided further, That the 
Superintendent, Deputy Superintendent and the Director of the Office of 
Resource Management of the United States Merchant Marine Academy may 
not be allotment holders for the United States Merchant Marine Academy, 
and the Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall hold all 
allotments made by the Secretary of Transportation or the Assistant 
Secretary for Budget and Programs under the previous proviso: Provided 
further, That 50 percent of the funding made available for the United 
States Merchant Marine Academy under this heading shall be available 
only after the Secretary, in consultation with the Superintendent and 
the Maritime Administrator, completes a plan detailing by program or 
activity how such funding will be expended at the Academy, and this 
plan is submitted to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided further, That not later than January 12, 2017, the 
Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall transmit to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations the annual report on 
sexual assault and sexual harassment at the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy as required pursuant to section 3507 of Public Law 110-
417.

                             ship disposal

    For necessary expenses related to the disposal of obsolete vessels 
in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Administration, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended.

          maritime guaranteed loan (title xi) program account

              (including rescission and transfer of funds)

     For administrative expenses to carry out the guaranteed loan 
program, $3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriations for ``Operations and Training'', Maritime 
Administration: Provided, That of the unobligated balance of funds made 
available for obligation under Public Law 114-113, $5,000,000 are 
hereby permanently rescinded.

           administrative provisions--maritime administration

    Sec. 170.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, in 
addition to any existing authority, the Maritime Administration is 
authorized to furnish utilities and services and make necessary repairs 
in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy involving 
Government property under control of the Maritime Administration: 
Provided, That payments received therefor shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof and shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That rental payments under any such 
lease, contract, or occupancy for items other than such utilities, 
services, or repairs shall be covered into the Treasury as 
miscellaneous receipts.
    Sec. 171.  None of the funds available or appropriated in this Act 
shall be used by the United States Department of Transportation or the 
United States Maritime Administration to negotiate or otherwise 
execute, enter into, facilitate or perform fee-for-service contracts 
for vessel disposal, scrapping or recycling, unless there is no 
qualified domestic ship recycler that will pay any sum of money to 
purchase and scrap or recycle a vessel owned, operated or managed by 
the Maritime Administration or that is part of the National Defense 
Reserve Fleet: Provided, That such sales offers must be consistent with 
the solicitation and provide that the work will be performed in a 
timely manner at a facility qualified within the meaning of section 
3502 of Public Law 106-398: Provided further, That nothing contained 
herein shall affect the Maritime Administration's authority to award 
contracts at least cost to the Federal Government and consistent with 
the requirements of 54 U.S.C. 308704, section 3502, or otherwise 
authorized under the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

         Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

                          operational expenses

    For necessary operational expenses of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration, $21,000,000.

                       hazardous materials safety

    For expenses necessary to discharge the hazardous materials safety 
functions of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration, $57,000,000, of which $7,570,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019: Provided, That up to $800,000 in fees 
collected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be deposited in the general 
fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts: Provided further, That 
there may be credited to this appropriation, to be available until 
expended, funds received from States, counties, municipalities, other 
public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training, for reports publication and dissemination, and for travel 
expenses incurred in performance of hazardous materials exemptions and 
approvals functions.

                            pipeline safety

                         (pipeline safety fund)

                    (oil spill liability trust fund)

    For expenses necessary to conduct the functions of the pipeline 
safety program, for grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety 
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the 
pipeline program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 
$150,000,000, of which $22,000,000 shall be derived from the Oil Spill 
Liability Trust Fund and shall remain available until September 30, 
2019; and of which $128,000,000 shall be derived from the Pipeline 
Safety Fund, of which $59,835,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2019: Provided, That not less than $1,058,000 of the 
funds provided under this heading shall be for the One-Call State grant 
program.

                     emergency preparedness grants

                     (emergency preparedness fund)

    Notwithstanding the fiscal year limitation specified in 49 U.S.C. 
5116, not more than $28,318,000 shall be made available for obligation 
in fiscal year 2017 from amounts made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), 
and 5128(b) and (c): Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 
5116(h)(4), not more than 4 percent of the amounts made available from 
this account shall be available to pay administrative costs: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), 
5128(b), or 5128(c) shall be made available for obligation by 
individuals other than the Secretary of Transportation, or his or her 
designee: Provided further, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C. 5128(b) and 
(c) and the current year obligation limitation, prior year recoveries 
recognized in the current year shall be available to develop a 
hazardous materials response training curriculum for emergency 
responders, including response activities for the transportation of 
crude oil, ethanol and other flammable liquids by rail, consistent with 
National Fire Protection Association standards, and to make such 
training available through an electronic format: Provided further, That 
the prior year recoveries made available under this heading shall also 
be available to carry out 49 U.S.C. 5116(a)(1)(C) and 5116(i).

                      Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General to 
carry out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as 
amended, $90,152,000: Provided, That the Inspector General shall have 
all necessary authority, in carrying out the duties specified in the 
Inspector General Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate 
allegations of fraud, including false statements to the government (18 
U.S.C. 1001), by any person or entity that is subject to regulation by 
the Department of Transportation: Provided further, That the funds made 
available under this heading may be used to investigate, pursuant to 
section 41712 of title 49, United States Code: (1) unfair or deceptive 
practices and unfair methods of competition by domestic and foreign air 
carriers and ticket agents; and (2) the compliance of domestic and 
foreign air carriers with respect to item (1) of this proviso.

            General Provisions--Department of Transportation

    Sec. 180.  During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations to the Department of Transportation shall be available 
for maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles and aircraft; purchase of liability insurance for motor 
vehicles operating in foreign countries on official department 
business; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 181.  Appropriations contained in this Act for the Department 
of Transportation shall be available for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the rate for an Executive Level IV.
    Sec. 182.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available for 
salaries and expenses of more than 110 political and Presidential 
appointees in the Department of Transportation: Provided, That none of 
the personnel covered by this provision may be assigned on temporary 
detail outside the Department of Transportation.
    Sec. 183. (a) No recipient of funds made available in this Act 
shall disseminate personal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of motor vehicles in connection 
with a motor vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1), except as 
provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary shall not 
withhold funds provided in this Act for any grantee if a State is in 
noncompliance with this provision.
    Sec. 184.  Funds received by the Federal Highway Administration and 
Federal Railroad Administration from States, counties, municipalities, 
other public authorities, and private sources for expenses incurred for 
training may be credited respectively to the Federal Highway 
Administration's ``Federal-Aid Highways'' account and to the Federal 
Railroad Administration's ``Safety and Operations'' account, except for 
State rail safety inspectors participating in training pursuant to 49 
U.S.C. 20105.
    Sec. 185.  None of the funds in this Act to the Department of 
Transportation may be used to make a loan, loan guarantee, line of 
credit, or grant unless the Secretary of Transportation notifies the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations not less than 3 full 
business days before any project competitively selected to receive a 
discretionary grant award, any discretionary grant award, letter of 
intent, loan commitment, loan guarantee commitment, line of credit 
commitment, or full funding grant agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more 
is announced by the department or its modal administrations from--
            (1) any discretionary grant or federal credit program of 
        the Federal Highway Administration including the emergency 
        relief program;
            (2) the airport improvement program of the Federal Aviation 
        Administration;
            (3) any program of the Federal Railroad Administration;
            (4) any program of the Federal Transit Administration other 
        than the formula grants and fixed guideway modernization 
        programs;
            (5) any program of the Maritime Administration; or
            (6) any funding provided under the headings ``National 
        Infrastructure Investments'' in this Act:
 Provided, That the Secretary gives concurrent notification to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations for any ``quick release'' 
of funds from the emergency relief program: Provided further, That no 
notification shall involve funds that are not available for obligation.
    Sec. 186.  Rebates, refunds, incentive payments, minor fees and 
other funds received by the Department of Transportation from travel 
management centers, charge card programs, the subleasing of building 
space, and miscellaneous sources are to be credited to appropriations 
of the Department of Transportation and allocated to elements of the 
Department of Transportation using fair and equitable criteria and such 
funds shall be available until expended.
    Sec. 187.  Amounts made available in this or any other Act that the 
Secretary determines represent improper payments by the Department of 
Transportation to a third-party contractor under a financial assistance 
award, which are recovered pursuant to law, shall be available--
            (1) to reimburse the actual expenses incurred by the 
        Department of Transportation in recovering improper payments; 
        and
            (2) to pay contractors for services provided in recovering 
        improper payments or contractor support in the implementation 
        of the Improper Payments Information Act of 2002: Provided, 
        That amounts in excess of that required for paragraphs (1) and 
        (2)--
                    (A) shall be credited to and merged with the 
                appropriation from which the improper payments were 
                made, and shall be available for the purposes and 
                period for which such appropriations are available: 
                Provided further, That where specific project or 
                accounting information associated with the improper 
                payment or payments is not readily available, the 
                Secretary may credit an appropriate account, which 
                shall be available for the purposes and period 
                associated with the account so credited; or
                    (B) if no such appropriation remains available, 
                shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous 
                receipts: Provided further, That prior to the transfer 
                of any such recovery to an appropriations account, the 
                Secretary shall notify the House and Senate Committees 
                on Appropriations of the amount and reasons for such 
                transfer: Provided further, That for purposes of this 
                section, the term ``improper payments'' has the same 
                meaning as that provided in section 2(d)(2) of Public 
                Law 107-300.
    Sec. 188.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if any funds 
provided in or limited by this Act are subject to a reprogramming 
action that requires notice to be provided to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations, transmission of said reprogramming notice 
shall be provided solely to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations, and said reprogramming action shall be approved or 
denied solely by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: 
Provided, That the Secretary of Transportation may provide notice to 
other congressional committees of the action of the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations on such reprogramming but not sooner than 
30 days following the date on which the reprogramming action has been 
approved or denied by the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.
    Sec. 189.  Funds appropriated in this Act to the modal 
administrations may be obligated for the Office of the Secretary for 
the costs related to assessments or reimbursable agreements only when 
such amounts are for the costs of goods and services that are purchased 
to provide a direct benefit to the applicable modal administration or 
administrations.
    Sec. 190.  The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to carry 
out a program that establishes uniform standards for developing and 
supporting agency transit pass and transit benefits authorized under 
section 7905 of title 5, United States Code, including distribution of 
transit benefits by various paper and electronic media.
    Sec. 191.  The Department of Transportation may use funds provided 
by this Act, or any other Act, to assist a contract under title 49 
U.S.C. or title 23 U.S.C. utilizing geographic, economic, or any other 
hiring preference not otherwise authorized by law, or to amend a rule, 
regulation, policy or other measure that forbids a recipient of a 
Federal Highway Administration or Federal Transit Administration grant 
from imposing such hiring preference on a contract or construction 
project with which the Department of Transportation is assisting, only 
if the grant recipient certifies the following:
            (1) that except with respect to apprentices or trainees, a 
        pool of readily available but unemployed individuals possessing 
        the knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the work that the 
        contract requires resides in the jurisdiction;
            (2) that the grant recipient will include appropriate 
        provisions in its bid document ensuring that the contractor 
        does not displace any of its existing employees in order to 
        satisfy such hiring preference; and
            (3) that any increase in the cost of labor, training, or 
        delays resulting from the use of such hiring preference does 
        not delay or displace any transportation project in the 
        applicable Statewide Transportation Improvement Program or 
        Transportation Improvement Program.
    Sec. 192.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for high-speed rail in the State of California or for the California 
High-Speed Rail Authority, nor may any be used by the Federal Railroad 
Administration to administer a grant agreement with the California 
High-Speed Rail Authority that contains a tapered matching requirement.
    Sec. 193. PENALTY WAGES.--
    (a) Foreign and Intercoastal Voyages- Section 10313(g) of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``all claims in a class action suit 
                by seamen'' and inserting ``each claim by a seaman''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``the seamen'' and inserting ``the 
                seaman''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``class action''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``, by a 
                seaman who is a claimant in the suit,'' and inserting 
                ``by the seaman''.
    (b) Coastwise Voyages- Section 10504(c) of such title is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``all claims in a class action suit 
                by seamen'' and inserting ``each claim by a seaman''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``the seamen'' and inserting ``the 
                seaman''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``class action''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``, by a 
                seaman who is a claimant in the suit,'' and inserting 
                ``by the seaman''.
    Sec. 194.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 24305(c)(4) of title 49, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 195.  Section 5303(r)(2)(C) of title 49, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and 25 square miles of land area'' after 
        ``145,000''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and 12 square miles of land area'' after 
        ``65,000''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Transportation 
Appropriations Act, 2017''.

                                TITLE II

              DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

                     Management and Administration

                           executive offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Executive Offices, which 
shall be comprised of the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, 
Adjudicatory Services, Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, 
Public Affairs, Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, and the 
Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, $14,000,000: 
Provided, That not to exceed $25,000 of the amount made available under 
this heading shall be available to the Secretary for official reception 
and representation expenses as the Secretary may determine.

                     administrative support offices

    For necessary salaries and expenses for Administrative Support 
Offices, $516,000,000, of which $53,500,000 shall be available for the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer; $95,250,000 shall be available 
for the Office of the General Counsel; $202,500,000 shall be available 
for the Office of Administration; $40,250,000 shall be available for 
the Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer; $51,250,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Field Policy and Management; $19,000,000 
shall be available for the Office of the Chief Procurement Officer; 
$3,500,000 shall be available for the Office of Departmental Equal 
Employment Opportunity; $4,500,000 shall be available for the Office of 
Strategic Planning and Management; and $46,250,000 shall be available 
for the Office of the Chief Information Officer: Provided, That funds 
provided under this heading may be used for necessary administrative 
and non-administrative expenses of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development, not otherwise provided for, including purchase of 
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
hire of passenger motor vehicles; and services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, funds appropriated under this heading may be used for 
advertising and promotional activities that directly support program 
activities funded in this title: Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall provide the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations 
quarterly written notification regarding the status of pending 
congressional reports: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
provide in electronic form all signed reports required by Congress.

                  Program Office Salaries and Expenses

                       public and indian housing

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Public and 
Indian Housing, $216,000,000.

                   community planning and development

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Community 
Planning and Development, $109,000,000.

                                housing

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Housing, 
$387,000,000.

                    policy development and research

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Policy 
Development and Research, $23,000,000.

                   fair housing and equal opportunity

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Fair Housing 
and Equal Opportunity, $72,000,000.

            office of lead hazard control and healthy homes

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Lead Hazard 
Control and Healthy Homes, $8,000,000.

                          working capital fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the working capital fund for the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development (referred to in this paragraph as the ``Fund''), 
pursuant, in part, to section 7(f) of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(f)), amounts transferred to the 
Fund under this heading shall be available for Federal shared services 
used by offices and agencies of the Department, and for such portion of 
any office or agency's printing, records management, space renovation, 
furniture, or supply services as the Secretary determines shall be 
derived from centralized sources made available by the Department to 
all offices and agencies and funded through the Fund: Provided, That of 
the amounts made available in this title for salaries and expenses 
under the headings ``Executive Offices'', ``Administrative Support 
Offices'', ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'', and ``Government 
National Mortgage Association'', the Secretary shall transfer to the 
Fund such amounts, to remain available until expended, as are necessary 
to fund services, specified in the first proviso, for which the 
appropriation would otherwise have been available, and may transfer not 
to exceed an additional $10,000,000, in aggregate, from all such 
appropriations, to be merged with the Fund and to remain available 
until expended for use for any office or agency: Provided further, That 
amounts in the Fund shall be the only amounts available to each office 
or agency of the Department for the services, or portion of services, 
specified in the first proviso: Provided further, That with respect to 
the Fund, the authorities and conditions under this heading shall 
supplement the authorities and conditions provided under section 7(f).

                   Public and Indian Housing Programs

                     tenant-based rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of tenant-based 
rental assistance authorized under the United States Housing Act of 
1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act'' herein), not 
otherwise provided for, $16,188,675,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be available on October 1, 2016 (in addition to the 
$4,000,000,000 previously appropriated under this heading that shall be 
available on October 1, 2016), and $4,000,000,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be available on October 1, 2017: Provided, That 
the amounts made available under this heading are provided as follows:
            (1) $18,311,675,000 shall be available for renewals of 
        expiring section 8 tenant-based annual contributions contracts 
        (including renewals of enhanced vouchers under any provision of 
        law authorizing such assistance under section 8(t) of the Act) 
        and including renewal of other special purpose incremental 
        vouchers: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, from amounts provided under this paragraph and any 
        carryover, the Secretary for the calendar year 2017 funding 
        cycle shall provide renewal funding for each public housing 
        agency based on validated voucher management system (VMS) 
        leasing and cost data for the prior calendar year and by 
        applying an inflation factor as established by the Secretary, 
        by notice published in the Federal Register, and by making any 
        necessary adjustments for the costs associated with the first-
        time renewal of vouchers under this paragraph including tenant 
        protection, and Choice Neighborhoods vouchers: Provided 
        further, That in determining calendar year 2017 funding 
        allocations under this heading for public housing agencies, 
        including agencies participating in the Moving To Work (MTW) 
        demonstration, the Secretary may take into account the 
        anticipated impact of changes in targeting and utility 
        allowances, on public housing agencies' contract renewal needs: 
        Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this 
        paragraph may be used to fund a total number of unit months 
        under lease which exceeds a public housing agency's authorized 
        level of units under contract, except for public housing 
        agencies participating in the MTW demonstration, which are 
        instead governed by the terms and conditions of their MTW 
        agreements: Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the 
        extent necessary to stay within the amount specified under this 
        paragraph (except as otherwise modified under this paragraph), 
        prorate each public housing agency's allocation otherwise 
        established pursuant to this paragraph: Provided further, That 
        except as provided in the following provisos, the entire amount 
        specified under this paragraph (except as otherwise modified 
        under this paragraph) shall be obligated to the public housing 
        agencies based on the allocation and pro rata method described 
        above, and the Secretary shall notify public housing agencies 
        of their annual budget by the latter of 60 days after enactment 
        of this Act or March 1, 2017: Provided further, That the 
        Secretary may extend the notification period with the prior 
        written approval of the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations: Provided further, That public housing agencies 
        participating in the MTW demonstration shall be funded pursuant 
        to their MTW agreements, and in accordance with the 
        requirements of the MTW program, and shall be subject to the 
        same pro rata adjustments under the previous provisos: Provided 
        further, That the Secretary may offset public housing agencies' 
        calendar year 2017 allocations based on the excess amounts of 
        public housing agencies' net restricted assets accounts, 
        including HUD held programmatic reserves (in accordance with 
        VMS data in calendar year 2016 that is verifiable and 
        complete), as determined by the Secretary: Provided further, 
        That public housing agencies participating in the MTW 
        demonstration shall also be subject to the offset, as 
        determined by the Secretary, excluding amounts subject to the 
        single fund budget authority provisions of their MTW 
        agreements, from the agencies' calendar year 2017 MTW funding 
        allocation: Provided further, That the Secretary shall use any 
        offset referred to in the previous two provisos throughout the 
        calendar year to prevent the termination of rental assistance 
        for families as the result of insufficient funding, as 
        determined by the Secretary, and to avoid or reduce the 
        proration of renewal funding allocations: Provided further, 
        That up to $75,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for 
        adjustments in the allocations for public housing agencies, 
        after application for an adjustment by a public housing agency 
        that experienced a significant increase, as determined by the 
        Secretary, in renewal costs of vouchers resulting from 
        unforeseen circumstances or from portability under section 8(r) 
        of the Act; (2) for vouchers that were not in use during the 
        previous 12-month period in order to be available to meet a 
        commitment pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of the Act; (3) for 
        adjustments for costs associated with HUD-Veterans Affairs 
        Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) vouchers; and (4) for public 
        housing agencies that despite taking reasonable cost savings 
        measures, as determined by the Secretary, would otherwise be 
        required to terminate rental assistance for families as a 
        result of insufficient funding: Provided further, That the 
        Secretary shall allocate amounts under the previous proviso 
        based on need, as determined by the Secretary;
            (2) $110,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental assistance 
        for relocation and replacement of housing units that are 
        demolished or disposed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act, 
        conversion of section 23 projects to assistance under section 
        8, the family unification program under section 8(x) of the 
        Act, relocation of witnesses in connection with efforts to 
        combat crime in public and assisted housing pursuant to a 
        request from a law enforcement or prosecution agency, enhanced 
        vouchers under any provision of law authorizing such assistance 
        under section 8(t) of the Act, HOPE VI and Choice Neighborhood 
        vouchers, mandatory and voluntary conversions, and tenant 
        protection assistance including replacement and relocation 
        assistance or for project-based assistance to prevent the 
        displacement of unassisted elderly tenants currently residing 
        in section 202 properties financed between 1959 and 1974 that 
        are refinanced pursuant to Public Law 106-569, as amended, or 
        under the authority as provided under this Act: Provided, That 
        when a public housing development is submitted for demolition 
        or disposition under section 18 of the Act, the Secretary may 
        provide section 8 rental assistance when the units pose an 
        imminent health and safety risk to residents: Provided further, 
        That the Secretary may only provide replacement vouchers for 
        units that were occupied within the previous 24 months that 
        cease to be available as assisted housing, subject only to the 
        availability of funds: Provided further, That of the amounts 
        made available under this paragraph, $5,000,000 may be 
        available to provide tenant protection assistance, not 
        otherwise provided under this paragraph, to residents residing 
        in low vacancy areas and who may have to pay rents greater than 
        30 percent of household income, as the result of: (A) the 
        maturity of a HUD-insured, HUD-held or section 202 loan that 
        requires the permission of the Secretary prior to loan 
        prepayment; (B) the expiration of a rental assistance contract 
        for which the tenants are not eligible for enhanced voucher or 
        tenant protection assistance under existing law; or (C) the 
        expiration of affordability restrictions accompanying a 
        mortgage or preservation program administered by the Secretary: 
        Provided further, That such tenant protection assistance made 
        available under the previous proviso may be provided under the 
        authority of section 8(t) or section 8(o)(13) of the United 
        States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(t)): Provided 
        further, That any tenant protection voucher made available from 
        amounts under this paragraph shall not be reissued by any 
        public housing agency, except the replacement vouchers as 
        defined by the Secretary by notice, when the initial family 
        that received any such voucher no longer receives such voucher, 
        and the authority for any public housing agency to issue any 
        such voucher shall cease to exist;
            (3) $1,650,000,000 shall be for administrative and other 
        expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
        section 8 tenant-based rental assistance program, of which up 
        to $10,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary to allocate 
        to public housing agencies that need additional funds to 
        administer their section 8 programs, including fees associated 
        with section 8 tenant protection rental assistance, the 
        administration of disaster related vouchers, Veterans Affairs 
        Supportive Housing vouchers, and other special purpose 
        incremental vouchers: Provided, That no less than 
        $1,640,000,000 of the amount provided in this paragraph shall 
        be allocated to public housing agencies for the calendar year 
        2017 funding cycle based on section 8(q) of the Act (and 
        related Appropriation Act provisions) as in effect immediately 
        before the enactment of the Quality Housing and Work 
        Responsibility Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-276): Provided 
        further, That if the amounts made available under this 
        paragraph are insufficient to pay the amounts determined under 
        the previous proviso, the Secretary may decrease the amounts 
        allocated to agencies by a uniform percentage applicable to all 
        agencies receiving funding under this paragraph or may, to the 
        extent necessary to provide full payment of amounts determined 
        under the previous proviso, utilize unobligated balances, 
        including recaptures and carryovers, remaining from funds 
        appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
        under this heading from prior fiscal years, excluding special 
        purpose vouchers, notwithstanding the purposes for which such 
        amounts were appropriated: Provided further, That all public 
        housing agencies participating in the MTW demonstration shall 
        be funded pursuant to their MTW agreements, and in accordance 
        with the requirements of the MTW program, and shall be subject 
        to the same uniform percentage decrease as under the previous 
        proviso: Provided further, That amounts provided under this 
        paragraph shall be only for activities related to the provision 
        of tenant-based rental assistance authorized under section 8, 
        including related development activities;
            (4) $110,000,000 for the renewal of tenant-based assistance 
        contracts under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including necessary 
        administrative expenses: Provided, That administrative and 
        other expenses of public housing agencies in administering the 
        special purpose vouchers in this paragraph shall be funded 
        under the same terms and be subject to the same pro rata 
        reduction as the percent decrease for administrative and other 
        expenses to public housing agencies under paragraph (3) of this 
        heading;
            (5) $7,000,000 shall be for rental assistance and 
        associated administrative fees for Tribal HUD-VA Supportive 
        Housing to serve Native American veterans that are homeless or 
        at-risk of homelessness living on or near a reservation or 
        other Indian areas: Provided, That such amount shall be made 
        available for renewal grants to the recipients that received 
        assistance under the rental assistance and supportive housing 
        demonstration program for Native American veterans authorized 
        under the heading ``tenant-based rental assistance'' in title 
        II of division K of the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
        Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235, 128 Stat. 2733): 
        Provided further, That the Secretary shall be authorized to 
        specify criteria for renewal grants, including data on the 
        utilization of assistance reported by grant recipients under 
        the demonstration program: Provided further, That any amounts 
        remaining after such renewal assistance is awarded may be 
        available for new grants to recipients eligible to receive 
        block grants under the Native American Housing Assistance and 
        Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. section 4101 et seq.) 
        for rental assistance and associated administrative fees for 
        Tribal HUD-VA Supportive Housing to serve Native American 
        veterans that are homeless or at-risk of homelessness living on 
        or near a reservation or other Indian areas: Provided further, 
        That funds shall be awarded based on need, administrative 
        capacity, and any other funding criteria established by the 
        Secretary in a Notice published in the Federal Register after 
        coordination with the Secretary of the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs: Provided further, That renewal grants and new grants 
        under this paragraph shall be administered by block grant 
        recipients in accordance with program requirements under the 
        Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act 
        of 1996: Provided further, That assistance under this paragraph 
        shall be modeled after, with necessary and appropriate 
        adjustments for Native American grant recipients and veterans, 
        the rental assistance and supportive housing program known as 
        HUD-VASH program, including administration in conjunction with 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs and overall implementation 
        of section 8(o)(19) of the United States Housing Act of 1937: 
        Provided further, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
        Development may waive, or specify alternative requirements for 
        any provision of any statute or regulation that the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development administers in connection with 
        the use of funds made available under this paragraph (except 
        for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, 
        labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the 
        Secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are 
        necessary for the effective delivery and administration of such 
        assistance: Provided further, That grant recipients shall 
        report to the Secretary on utilization of such rental 
        assistance and other program data, as prescribed by the 
        Secretary; and
            (6) the Secretary shall separately track all special 
        purpose vouchers funded under this heading.

                        housing certificate fund

                        (including rescissions)

    Unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development under this heading, the heading ``Annual Contributions for 
Assisted Housing'' and the heading ``Project-Based Rental Assistance'', 
for fiscal year 2017 and prior years may be used for renewal of or 
amendments to section 8 project-based contracts and for performance-
based contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes for which 
such funds were appropriated: Provided, That any obligated balances of 
contract authority from fiscal year 1974 and prior that have been 
terminated shall be rescinded: Provided further, That amounts 
heretofore recaptured, or recaptured during the current fiscal year, 
from section 8 project-based contracts from source years fiscal year 
1975 through fiscal year 1987 are hereby rescinded, and an amount of 
additional new budget authority, equivalent to the amount rescinded is 
hereby appropriated, to remain available until expended, for the 
purposes set forth under this heading, in addition to amounts otherwise 
available.

                      public housing capital fund

    For the Public Housing Capital Fund Program to carry out capital 
and management activities for public housing agencies, as authorized 
under section 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437g) (the ``Act'') $1,900,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2020: Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law or regulation, during fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development may not delegate to any Department official other 
than the Deputy Secretary and the Assistant Secretary for Public and 
Indian Housing any authority under paragraph (2) of section 9(j) 
regarding the extension of the time periods under such section: 
Provided further, That for purposes of such section 9(j), the term 
``obligate'' means, with respect to amounts, that the amounts are 
subject to a binding agreement that will result in outlays, immediately 
or in the future: Provided further, That up to $10,000,000 shall be to 
support ongoing Public Housing Financial and Physical Assessment 
activities: Provided further, That up to $1,000,000 shall be to support 
the costs of administrative and judicial receiverships: Provided 
further, That of the total amount provided under this heading, not to 
exceed $20,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary to make grants, 
notwithstanding section 204 of this Act, to public housing agencies for 
emergency capital needs including safety and security measures 
necessary to address crime and drug-related activity as well as needs 
resulting from unforeseen or unpreventable emergencies and natural 
disasters excluding Presidentially declared emergencies and natural 
disasters under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in fiscal year 2017: Provided 
further, That of the amount made available under the previous proviso, 
not less than $5,000,000 shall be for safety and security measures: 
Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this heading 
$35,000,000 shall be for supportive services, service coordinator and 
congregate services as authorized by section 34 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 
1437z-6) and the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.): Provided further, 
That of the total amount made available under this heading, $15,000,000 
shall be for a Jobs-Plus initiative modeled after the Jobs-Plus 
demonstration: Provided further, That the funding provided under the 
previous proviso shall provide competitive grants to partnerships 
between public housing authorities, local workforce investment boards 
established under section 117 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, 
and other agencies and organizations that provide support to help 
public housing residents obtain employment and increase earnings: 
Provided further, That applicants must demonstrate the ability to 
provide services to residents, partner with workforce investment 
boards, and leverage service dollars: Provided further, That the 
Secretary may allow public housing agencies to request exemptions from 
rent and income limitation requirements under sections 3 and 6 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 as necessary to implement the Jobs-
Plus program, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may approve 
upon a finding by the Secretary that any such waivers or alternative 
requirements are necessary for the effective implementation of the 
Jobs-Plus initiative as a voluntary program for residents: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall publish by notice in the Federal 
Register any waivers or alternative requirements pursuant to the 
preceding proviso no later than 10 days before the effective date of 
such notice: Provided further, That for funds provided under this 
heading, the limitation in section 9(g)(1) of the Act shall be 25 
percent: Provided further, That the Secretary may waive the limitation 
in the previous proviso to allow public housing agencies to fund 
activities authorized under section 9(e)(1)(C) of the Act: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall notify public housing agencies 
requesting waivers under the previous proviso if the request is 
approved or denied within 14 days of submitting the request: Provided 
further, That from the funds made available under this heading, the 
Secretary shall provide bonus awards in fiscal year 2017 to public 
housing agencies that are designated high performers: Provided further, 
That the Department shall notify public housing agencies of their 
formula allocation within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

                     public housing operating fund

    For 2017 payments to public housing agencies for the operation and 
management of public housing, as authorized by section 9(e) of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,500,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2018.

                    choice neighborhoods initiative

    For competitive grants under the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative 
(subject to section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise specified under this heading), for 
transformation, rehabilitation, and replacement housing needs of both 
public and HUD-assisted housing and to transform neighborhoods of 
poverty into functioning, sustainable mixed income neighborhoods with 
appropriate services, schools, public assets, transportation and access 
to jobs, $100,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: 
Provided, That grant funds may be used for resident and community 
services, community development, and affordable housing needs in the 
community, and for conversion of vacant or foreclosed properties to 
affordable housing: Provided further, That the use of funds made 
available under this heading shall not be deemed to be public housing 
notwithstanding section 3(b)(1) of such Act: Provided further, That 
grantees shall commit to an additional period of affordability 
determined by the Secretary of not fewer than 20 years: Provided 
further, That grantees shall undertake comprehensive local planning 
with input from residents and the community, and that grantees shall 
provide a match in State, local, other Federal or private funds: 
Provided further, That grantees may include local governments, tribal 
entities, public housing authorities, and nonprofits: Provided further, 
That for-profit developers may apply jointly with a public entity: 
Provided further, That for purposes of environmental review, a grantee 
shall be treated as a public housing agency under section 26 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437x), and grants under 
this heading shall be subject to the regulations issued by the 
Secretary to implement such section: Provided further, That of the 
amount provided, not less than $50,000,000 shall be awarded to public 
housing agencies: Provided further, That such grantees shall create 
partnerships with other local organizations including assisted housing 
owners, service agencies, and resident organizations: Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall consult with the Secretaries of Education, 
Labor, Transportation, Health and Human Services, Agriculture, and 
Commerce, the Attorney General, and the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency to coordinate and leverage other 
appropriate Federal resources: Provided further, That no more than 
$5,000,000 of funds made available under this heading may be provided 
to assist communities in developing comprehensive strategies for 
implementing this program or implementing other revitalization efforts 
in conjunction with community notice and input: Provided further, That 
the Secretary shall develop and publish guidelines for the use of such 
competitive funds, including but not limited to eligible activities, 
program requirements, and performance metrics: Provided further, That 
unobligated balances, including recaptures, remaining from funds 
appropriated under the heading ``Revitalization of Severely Distressed 
Public Housing (HOPE VI)'' in fiscal year 2011 and prior fiscal years 
may be used for purposes under this heading, notwithstanding the 
purposes for which such amounts were appropriated.

                        family self-sufficiency

    For the Family Self-Sufficiency program to support family self-
sufficiency coordinators under section 23 of the United States Housing 
Act of 1937, to promote the development of local strategies to 
coordinate the use of assistance under sections 8(o) and 9 of such Act 
with public and private resources, and enable eligible families to 
achieve economic independence and self-sufficiency, $75,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, That the Secretary 
may, by Federal Register notice, waive or specify alternative 
requirements under sections b(3), b(4), b(5), or c(1) of section 23 of 
such Act in order to facilitate the operation of a unified self-
sufficiency program for individuals receiving assistance under 
different provisions of the Act, as determined by the Secretary: 
Provided further, That owners of a privately owned multifamily property 
with a section 8 contract may voluntarily make a Family Self-
Sufficiency program available to the assisted tenants of such property 
in accordance with procedures established by the Secretary: Provided 
further, That such procedures established pursuant to the previous 
proviso shall permit participating tenants to accrue escrow funds in 
accordance with section 23(d)(2) and shall allow owners to use funding 
from residual receipt accounts to hire coordinators for their own 
Family Self-Sufficiency program.

                  native american housing block grants

    For the Native American Housing Block Grants program, as authorized 
under title I of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), 
$655,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996, to determine the amount of the allocation 
under title I of such Act for each Indian tribe, the Secretary shall 
apply the formula under section 302 of such Act with the need component 
based on single-race census data and with the need component based on 
multi-race census data, and the amount of the allocation for each 
Indian tribe shall be the greater of the two resulting allocation 
amounts: Provided further, That of the amounts made available under 
this heading, $3,500,000 shall be contracted for assistance for 
national or regional organizations representing Native American housing 
interests for providing training and technical assistance to Indian 
housing authorities and tribally designated housing entities as 
authorized under NAHASDA: Provided further, That of the funds made 
available under the previous proviso, not less than $2,000,000 shall be 
made available for a national organization as authorized under section 
703 of NAHASDA (25 U.S.C. 4212): Provided further, That of the amounts 
made available under this heading, $2,000,000 shall be to support the 
inspection of Indian housing units, contract expertise, training, and 
technical assistance in the training, oversight, and management of such 
Indian housing and tenant-based assistance: Provided further, That of 
the amount provided under this heading, $2,000,000 shall be made 
available for the cost of guaranteed notes and other obligations, as 
authorized by title VI of NAHASDA: Provided further, That such costs, 
including the costs of modifying such notes and other obligations, 
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, as amended: Provided further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize the total principal amount of any notes and other 
obligations, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed 
$17,857,142: Provided further, That the Department will notify grantees 
of their formula allocation within 60 days of the date of enactment of 
this Act: Provided further, notwithstanding section 302(d) of NAHASDA, 
if on January 1, 2017, a recipient's total amount of undisbursed block 
grants in the Department's line of credit control system is greater 
than three times the formula allocation it would otherwise receive 
under this heading, the Secretary shall adjust that recipient's formula 
allocation down by the difference between its total amount of 
undisbursed block grants in the Department's line of credit control 
system on January 1, 2017, and three times the formula allocation it 
would otherwise receive: Provided further, That grant amounts not 
allocated to a recipient pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
allocated under the need component of the formula proportionately among 
all other Indian tribes not subject to an adjustment: Provided further, 
That the two previous provisos shall not apply to any Indian tribe that 
would otherwise receive a formula allocation of less than $8,000,000: 
Provided further, That to take effect, the three previous provisos do 
not require issuance or amendment of any regulation, and shall not be 
construed to confer hearing rights under any section of NAHASDA or its 
implementing regulations.

           indian housing loan guarantee fund program account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, as authorized by section 184 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-
13a), $5,500,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
such costs, including the costs of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize total 
loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, up to 
$1,341,463,415, to remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That up to $750,000 of this amount may be for administrative contract 
expenses including management processes and systems to carry out the 
loan guarantee program.

                   Community Planning and Development

              housing opportunities for persons with aids

    For carrying out the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 
program, as authorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act (42 U.S.C. 
12901 et seq.), $335,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018, except that amounts allocated pursuant to section 854(c)(3) of 
such Act shall remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, 
That the Secretary shall renew all expiring contracts for permanent 
supportive housing that initially were funded under section 854(c)(3) 
of such Act from funds made available under this heading in fiscal year 
2010 and prior fiscal years that meet all program requirements before 
awarding funds for new contracts under such section: Provided further, 
That the Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act.

                       community development fund

    For assistance to units of State and local government, and to other 
entities, for economic and community development activities, and for 
other purposes, $3,060,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2019, unless otherwise specified: Provided, That of the total amount 
provided, $3,000,000,000 is for carrying out the community development 
block grant program under title I of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974, as amended (``the Act'' herein) (42 U.S.C. 
5301 et seq.): Provided further, That unless explicitly provided for 
under this heading, not to exceed 20 percent of any grant made with 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be expended for planning 
and management development and administration: Provided further, That a 
metropolitan city, urban county, unit of general local government, or 
Indian tribe, or insular area that directly or indirectly receives 
funds under this heading may not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer all 
or any portion of such funds to another such entity in exchange for any 
other funds, credits or non-Federal considerations, but must use such 
funds for activities eligible under title I of the Act: Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 105(e)(1) of the Act, no funds 
provided under this heading may be provided to a for-profit entity for 
an economic development project under section 105(a)(17) unless such 
project has been evaluated and selected in accordance with guidelines 
required under subparagraph (e)(2): Provided further, That the 
Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 
days of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That of the total 
amount provided under this heading $60,000,000 shall be for grants to 
Indian tribes notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such Act, of which, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law (including section 204 of 
this Act), up to $4,000,000 may be used for emergencies that constitute 
imminent threats to health and safety.

         community development loan guarantees program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
during fiscal year 2017, commitments to guarantee loans under section 
108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 
5308), any part of which is guaranteed, shall not exceed a total 
principal amount of $300,000,000, notwithstanding any aggregate 
limitation on outstanding obligations guaranteed in subsection (k) of 
such section 108: Provided, That the Secretary shall collect fees from 
borrowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of such section 108, to 
result in a credit subsidy cost of zero for guaranteeing such loans, 
and any such fees shall be collected in accordance with section 502(7) 
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

                  home investment partnerships program

    For the HOME Investment Partnerships program, as authorized under 
title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as 
amended, $950,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
Provided, That notwithstanding the amount made available under this 
heading, the threshold reduction requirements in sections 216(10) and 
217(b)(4) of such Act shall not apply to allocations of such amount: 
Provided further, That the requirements under provisos 2 through 6 
under this heading for fiscal year 2012 and such requirements 
applicable pursuant to the ``Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2013'', shall not apply to any project to which funds were committed on 
or after August 23, 2013, but such projects shall instead be governed 
by the Final Rule titled ``Home Investment Partnerships Program; 
Improving Performance and Accountability; Updating Property Standards'' 
which became effective on such date: Provided further, That the 
Department shall notify grantees of their formula allocation within 60 
days of enactment of this Act.

        self-help and assisted homeownership opportunity program

    For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program, 
as authorized under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program 
Extension Act of 1996, as amended, $50,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2019: Provided, That of the total amount provided 
under this heading, $10,000,000 shall be made available to the Self-
Help and Assisted Homeownership Opportunity Program as authorized under 
section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996, as 
amended: Provided further, That of the total amount provided under this 
heading, $35,000,000 shall be made available for the second, third, and 
fourth capacity building activities authorized under section 4(a) of 
the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not 
less than $5,000,000 shall be made available for rural capacity 
building activities: Provided further, That of the total amount 
provided under this heading, $5,000,000 shall be made available for 
capacity building by national rural housing organizations with 
experience assessing national rural conditions and providing financing, 
training, technical assistance, information, and research to local 
nonprofits, local governments and Indian Tribes serving high need rural 
communities.

                       homeless assistance grants

    For the Emergency Solutions Grants program as authorized under 
subtitle B of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, 
as amended; the Continuum of Care program as authorized under subtitle 
C of title IV of such Act; and the Rural Housing Stability Assistance 
program as authorized under subtitle D of title IV of such Act, 
$2,487,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2019: Provided, 
That any rental assistance amounts that are recaptured under such 
Continuum of Care program shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That not less than $310,000,000 of the funds 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for such Emergency 
Solutions Grants program, of which, $40,000,000 shall be made 
available, as determined by the Secretary, for grants for rapid re-
housing or other critical activities in order to assist communities 
that lost significant capacity after January 1, 2016 to serve persons 
experiencing homelessness: Provided further, That not less than 
$2,014,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for such Continuum of Care and Rural Housing Stability 
Assistance programs: Provided further, That up to $7,000,000 of the 
funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for the 
national homeless data analysis project: Provided further, That all 
funds awarded for supportive services under the Continuum of Care 
program and the Rural Housing Stability Assistance program shall be 
matched by not less than 25 percent in cash or in kind by each grantee: 
Provided further, That for all match requirements applicable to funds 
made available under this heading for this fiscal year and prior years, 
a grantee may use (or could have used) as a source of match funds other 
funds administered by the Secretary and other Federal agencies unless 
there is (or was) a specific statutory prohibition on any such use of 
any such funds: Provided further, That the Secretary shall collect 
system performance measures for each continuum of care, and that 
relative to fiscal year 2015, under the Continuum of Care competition 
with respect to funds made available under this heading, the Secretary 
shall base an increasing share of the score on performance criteria: 
Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this heading 
shall be available to provide funding for new projects, except for 
projects created through reallocation, unless the Secretary determines 
that the continuum of care has demonstrated that projects are evaluated 
and ranked based on the degree to which they improve the continuum of 
care's system performance: Provided further, That the Secretary shall 
prioritize funding under the Continuum of Care program to continuums of 
care that have demonstrated a capacity to reallocate funding from lower 
performing projects to higher performing projects: Provided further, 
That all awards of assistance under this heading shall be required to 
coordinate and integrate homeless programs with other mainstream 
health, social services, and employment programs for which homeless 
populations may be eligible: Provided further, That any unobligated 
amounts remaining from funds appropriated under this heading in fiscal 
year 2012 and prior years for project-based rental assistance for 
rehabilitation projects with 10-year grant terms may be used for 
purposes under this heading, notwithstanding the purposes for which 
such funds were appropriated:  Provided further, That all balances for 
Shelter Plus Care renewals previously funded from the Shelter Plus Care 
Renewal account and transferred to this account shall be available, if 
recaptured, for Continuum of Care renewals in fiscal year 2017: 
Provided further, That the Department shall notify grantees of their 
formula allocation from amounts allocated (which may represent initial 
or final amounts allocated) for the Emergency Solutions Grant program 
within 60 days of enactment of this Act: Provided further, That youth 
aged 24 and under seeking assistance under this heading shall not be 
required to provide third party documentation to establish their 
eligibility under 42 U.S.C. 11302(a) or (b) to receive services: 
Provided further, That unaccompanied youth aged 24 and under or 
families headed by youth aged 24 and under who are living in unsafe 
situations may be served by youth-serving providers funded under this 
heading: Provided further, That the Secretary may use amounts made 
available under this heading for the Continuum of Care program to renew 
a grant originally awarded pursuant to the matter under the heading 
``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Permanent Supportive 
Housing'' in chapter 6 of title III of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 122 Stat. 2351) for assistance under 
subtitle F of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 11403 et seq.): Provided further, That such renewal grant 
shall be awarded to the same grantee and be subject to the provisions 
of such Continuum of Care program except that the funds may be used 
outside the geographic area of the continuum of care.

                            Housing Programs

                    project-based rental assistance

    For activities and assistance for the provision of project-based 
subsidy contracts under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 
U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (``the Act''), not otherwise provided for, 
$10,501,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available 
on October 1, 2016 (in addition to the $400,000,000 previously 
appropriated under this heading that became available October 1, 2016), 
and $400,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be 
available on October 1, 2017: Provided, That the amounts made available 
under this heading shall be available for expiring or terminating 
section 8 project-based subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate 
rehabilitation contracts), for amendments to section 8 project-based 
subsidy contracts (including section 8 moderate rehabilitation 
contracts), for contracts entered into pursuant to section 441 of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11401), for renewal 
of section 8 contracts for units in projects that are subject to 
approved plans of action under the Emergency Low Income Housing 
Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preservation and 
Resident Homeownership Act of 1990, and for administrative and other 
expenses associated with project-based activities and assistance funded 
under this paragraph: Provided further, That of the total amounts 
provided under this heading, not to exceed $235,000,000 shall be 
available for performance-based contract administrators for section 8 
project-based assistance, for carrying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f): Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may also 
use such amounts in the previous proviso for performance-based contract 
administrators for the administration of: interest reduction payments 
pursuant to section 236(a) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 
1715z-1(a)); rent supplement payments pursuant to section 101 of the 
Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); section 
236(f)(2) rental assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1(f)(2)); project 
rental assistance contracts for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of 
the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project rental assistance 
contracts for supportive housing for persons with disabilities under 
section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing 
Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2)); project assistance contracts pursuant to 
section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 
667); and loans under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public 
Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667): Provided further, That amounts recaptured 
under this heading, the heading ``Annual Contributions for Assisted 
Housing'', or the heading ``Housing Certificate Fund'', may be used for 
renewals of or amendments to section 8 project-based contracts or for 
performance-based contract administrators, notwithstanding the purposes 
for which such amounts were appropriated: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the request of the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, project funds that are held 
in residual receipts accounts for any project subject to a section 8 
project-based Housing Assistance Payments contract that authorizes HUD 
or a Housing Finance Agency to require that surplus project funds be 
deposited in an interest-bearing residual receipts account and that are 
in excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary, shall be 
remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, to be 
available until expended: Provided further, That amounts deposited 
pursuant to the previous proviso shall be available in addition to the 
amount otherwise provided by this heading for uses authorized under 
this heading.

                        housing for the elderly

    For amendments to capital advance contracts for housing for the 
elderly, as authorized by section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as 
amended, and for project rental assistance for the elderly under 
section 202(c)(2) of such Act, including amendments to contracts for 
such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for such assistance 
for up to a 1-year term, and for senior preservation rental assistance 
contracts, including renewals, as authorized by section 811(e) of the 
American Housing and Economic Opportunity Act of 2000, as amended, and 
for supportive services associated with the housing, $505,000,000 to 
remain available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That of the amount 
provided under this heading, up to $75,000,000 shall be for service 
coordinators and the continuation of existing congregate service grants 
for residents of assisted housing projects: Provided further, That 
amounts under this heading shall be available for Real Estate 
Assessment Center inspections and inspection-related activities 
associated with section 202 projects: Provided further, That the 
Secretary may waive the provisions of section 202 governing the terms 
and conditions of project rental assistance, except that the initial 
contract term for such assistance shall not exceed 5 years in duration: 
Provided further, That upon request of the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development, project funds that are held in residual receipts 
accounts for any project subject to a section 202 project rental 
assistance contract, and that upon termination of such contract are in 
excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary, shall be 
remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, to be 
available until September 30, 2020: Provided further, That amounts 
deposited in this account pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
available, in addition to the amounts otherwise provided by this 
heading, for amendments and renewals: Provided further, That 
unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds transferred to or appropriated under this heading shall be 
available for amendments and renewals notwithstanding the purposes for 
which such funds originally were appropriated.

                 housing for persons with disabilities

    For amendments to capital advance contracts for supportive housing 
for persons with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of the 
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), for 
project rental assistance for supportive housing for persons with 
disabilities under section 811(d)(2) of such Act and for project 
assistance contracts pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of 
1959 (Public Law 86-372; 73 Stat. 667), including amendments to 
contracts for such assistance and renewal of expiring contracts for 
such assistance for up to a 1-year term, for project rental assistance 
to State housing finance agencies and other appropriate entities as 
authorized under section 811(b)(3) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
Housing Act, and for supportive services associated with the housing 
for persons with disabilities as authorized by section 811(b)(1) of 
such Act, $154,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2020: 
Provided, That amounts made available under this heading shall be 
available for Real Estate Assessment Center inspections and inspection-
related activities associated with section 811 projects: Provided 
further, That, in this fiscal year, upon the request of the Secretary 
of Housing and Urban Development, project funds that are held in 
residual receipts accounts for any project subject to a section 811 
project rental assistance contract and that upon termination of such 
contract are in excess of an amount to be determined by the Secretary 
shall be remitted to the Department and deposited in this account, to 
be available until September 30, 2020: Provided further, That amounts 
deposited in this account pursuant to the previous proviso shall be 
available in addition to the amounts otherwise provided by this heading 
for amendments and renewals: Provided further, That unobligated 
balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds 
transferred to or appropriated under this heading shall be used for 
amendments and renewals notwithstanding the purposes for which such 
funds originally were appropriated.

                     Housing Counseling Assistance

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance excluding loans, as 
authorized under section 106 of the Housing and Urban Development Act 
of 1968, as amended, $55,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2018, including up to $4,500,000 for administrative contract 
services: Provided, That grants made available from amounts provided 
under this heading shall be awarded within 180 days of enactment of 
this Act: Provided further, That funds shall be used for providing 
counseling and advice to tenants and homeowners, both current and 
prospective, with respect to property maintenance, financial 
management/literacy, and such other matters as may be appropriate to 
assist them in improving their housing conditions, meeting their 
financial needs, and fulfilling the responsibilities of tenancy or 
homeownership; for program administration; and for housing counselor 
training: Provided further, That for purposes of providing such grants 
from amounts provided under this heading, the Secretary may enter into 
multiyear agreements as appropriate, subject to the availability of 
annual appropriations.

                    Other Assisted Housing Programs

                       rental housing assistance

    For amendments to contracts under section 101 of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) and section 236(f)(2) 
of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1) in State-aided, 
noninsured rental housing projects, $20,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That such amount, together with unobligated 
balances from recaptured amounts appropriated prior to fiscal year 2006 
from terminated contracts under such sections of law, and any 
unobligated balances, including recaptures and carryover, remaining 
from funds appropriated under this heading after fiscal year 2005, 
shall also be available for extensions of up to one year for expiring 
contracts under such sections of law.

            payment to manufactured housing fees trust fund

    For necessary expenses as authorized by the National Manufactured 
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401 
et seq.), up to $11,500,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $11,500,000 is to be derived from the Manufactured Housing Fees 
Trust Fund: Provided, That not to exceed the total amount appropriated 
under this heading shall be available from the general fund of the 
Treasury to the extent necessary to incur obligations and make 
expenditures pending the receipt of collections to the Fund pursuant to 
section 620 of such Act: Provided further, That the amount made 
available under this heading from the general fund shall be reduced as 
such collections are received during fiscal year 2017 so as to result 
in a final fiscal year 2017 appropriation from the general fund 
estimated at zero, and fees pursuant to such section 620 shall be 
modified as necessary to ensure such a final fiscal year 2017 
appropriation: Provided further, That for the dispute resolution and 
installation programs, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development 
may assess and collect fees from any program participant: Provided 
further, That such collections shall be deposited into the Fund, and 
the Secretary, as provided herein, may use such collections, as well as 
fees collected under section 620, for necessary expenses of such Act: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding the requirements of section 620 
of such Act, the Secretary may carry out responsibilities of the 
Secretary under such Act through the use of approved service providers 
that are paid directly by the recipients of their services.

                     Federal Housing Administration

               mutual mortgage insurance program account

    New commitments to guarantee single family loans insured under the 
Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund shall not exceed $400,000,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, That during fiscal 
year 2017, obligations to make direct loans to carry out the purposes 
of section 204(g) of the National Housing Act, as amended, shall not 
exceed $5,000,000: Provided further, That the foregoing amount in the 
previous proviso shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental 
entities in connection with sales of single family real properties 
owned by the Secretary and formerly insured under the Mutual Mortgage 
Insurance Fund: Provided further, That for administrative contract 
expenses of the Federal Housing Administration, $130,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018: Provided further, That to the 
extent guaranteed loan commitments exceed $200,000,000,000 on or before 
April 1, 2017, an additional $1,400 for administrative contract 
expenses shall be available for each $1,000,000 in additional 
guaranteed loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount 
below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this 
proviso exceed $30,000,000.

                general and special risk program account

    New commitments to guarantee loans insured under the General and 
Special Risk Insurance Funds, as authorized by sections 238 and 519 of 
the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-3 and 1735c), shall not 
exceed $30,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any part of which is to 
be guaranteed, to remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, 
That during fiscal year 2017, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l), 238, 
and 519(a) of the National Housing Act, shall not exceed $5,000,000, 
which shall be for loans to nonprofit and governmental entities in 
connection with the sale of single family real properties owned by the 
Secretary and formerly insured under such Act.

                Government National Mortgage Association

guarantees of mortgage-backed securities loan guarantee program account

    New commitments to issue guarantees to carry out the purposes of 
section 306 of the National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 
1721(g)), shall not exceed $500,000,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018: Provided, That $23,000,000 shall be available for 
necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Government National 
Mortgage Association: Provided further, That to the extent that 
guaranteed loan commitments exceed $155,000,000,000 on or before April 
1, 2017, an additional $100 for necessary salaries and expenses shall 
be available until expended for each $1,000,000 in additional 
guaranteed loan commitments (including a pro rata amount for any amount 
below $1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made available by this 
proviso exceed $3,000,000: Provided further, That receipts from 
Commitment and Multiclass fees collected pursuant to title III of the 
National Housing Act, as amended, shall be credited as offsetting 
collections to this account.

                    Policy Development and Research

                        research and technology

    For contracts, grants, and necessary expenses of programs of 
research and studies relating to housing and urban problems, not 
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title V of the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 et seq.), including 
carrying out the functions of the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development under section 1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 
1968, and for technical assistance, $80,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018: Provided, That with respect to amounts made 
available under this heading, notwithstanding section 204 of this 
title, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements funded with 
philanthropic entities, other Federal agencies, or State or local 
governments and their agencies for research projects: Provided further, 
That with respect to the previous proviso, such partners to the 
cooperative agreements must contribute at least a 50 percent match 
toward the cost of the project: Provided further, That for non-
competitive agreements entered into in accordance with the previous two 
provisos, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall comply 
with section 2(b) of the Federal Funding Accountability and 
Transparency Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-282, 31 U.S.C. note) in lieu 
of compliance with section 102(a)(4)(C) with respect to documentation 
of award decisions: Provided further, That prior to obligation of 
technical assistance funding, the Secretary shall submit a plan, for 
approval, to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on how 
it will allocate funding for this activity.

                   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity

                        fair housing activities

    For contracts, grants, and other assistance, not otherwise provided 
for, as authorized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as 
amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of 
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, as amended, 
$65,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, 
That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary may assess and 
collect fees to cover the costs of the Fair Housing Training Academy, 
and may use such funds to provide such training: Provided further, That 
no funds made available under this heading shall be used to lobby the 
executive or legislative branches of the Federal Government in 
connection with a specific contract, grant, or loan: Provided further, 
That of the funds made available under this heading, $300,000 shall be 
available to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for the 
creation and promotion of translated materials and other programs that 
support the assistance of persons with limited English proficiency in 
utilizing the services provided by the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development.

            Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes

                         lead hazard reduction

    For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program, as authorized by section 
1011 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992, 
$130,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, of which 
$20,000,000 shall be for the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursuant to 
sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 
that shall include research, studies, testing, and demonstration 
efforts, including education and outreach concerning lead-based paint 
poisoning and other housing-related diseases and hazards: Provided, 
That for purposes of environmental review, pursuant to the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other 
provisions of the law that further the purposes of such Act, a grant 
under the Healthy Homes Initiative, or the Lead Technical Studies 
program under this heading or under prior appropriations Acts for such 
purposes under this heading, shall be considered to be funds for a 
special project for purposes of section 305(c) of the Multifamily 
Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994: Provided further, That 
of the total amount made available under this heading, $45,000,000 
shall be made available on a competitive basis for areas with the 
highest lead paint abatement needs: Provided further, That each 
recipient of funds provided under the previous proviso shall contribute 
an amount not less than 25 percent of the total: Provided further, That 
each applicant shall certify adequate capacity that is acceptable to 
the Secretary to carry out the proposed use of funds pursuant to a 
notice of funding availability: Provided further, That amounts made 
available under this heading in this or prior appropriations Acts, and 
that still remain available, may be used for any purpose under this 
heading notwithstanding the purpose for which such amounts were 
appropriated if a program competition is undersubscribed and there are 
other program competitions under this heading that are oversubscribed.

                      information technology fund

    For the development of, modifications to, and infrastructure for 
Department-wide and program-specific information technology systems, 
for the continuing operation and maintenance of both Department-wide 
and program-specific information systems, and for program-related 
maintenance activities, $100,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018: Provided, That any amounts transferred to this Fund 
under this Act shall remain available until expended: Provided further, 
That any amounts transferred to this Fund from amounts appropriated by 
previously enacted appropriations Acts may be used for the purposes 
specified under this Fund, in addition to any other information 
technology purposes for which such amounts were appropriated.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector 
General in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 
$128,082,000: Provided, That the Inspector General shall have 
independent authority over all personnel issues within this office.

    General Provisions--Department of Housing and Urban Development

                     (including transfer of funds)

                        (including rescissions)

    Sec. 201.  Fifty percent of the amounts of budget authority, or in 
lieu thereof 50 percent of the cash amounts associated with such budget 
authority, that are recaptured from projects described in section 
1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act 
of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437 f note) shall be rescinded or in the case of 
cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and such amounts of budget 
authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to the 
Treasury shall be used by State housing finance agencies or local 
governments or local housing agencies with projects approved by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for which settlement 
occurred after January 1, 1992, in accordance with such section. 
Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Secretary may award up to 15 
percent of the budget authority or cash recaptured and not rescinded or 
remitted to the Treasury to provide project owners with incentives to 
refinance their project at a lower interest rate.
    Sec. 202.  None of the amounts made available under this Act may be 
used during fiscal year 2017 to investigate or prosecute under the Fair 
Housing Act any otherwise lawful activity engaged in by one or more 
persons, including the filing or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal 
action, that is engaged in solely for the purpose of achieving or 
preventing action by a Government official or entity, or a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 203.  Sections 203 and 209 of division C of Public Law 112-55 
(125 Stat. 693-694) shall apply during fiscal year 2017 as if such 
sections were included in this title, except that during such fiscal 
year such sections shall be applied by substituting ``fiscal year 
2017'' for ``fiscal year 2011'' and for ``fiscal year 2012'' each place 
such terms appear, and shall be amended to reflect revised delineations 
of statistical areas established by the Office of Management and Budget 
pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3504(e)(3), 31 U.S.C. 1104(d), and Executive 
Order No. 10253.
    Sec. 204.  Except as explicitly provided in law, any grant, 
cooperative agreement or other assistance made pursuant to title II of 
this Act shall be made on a competitive basis and in accordance with 
section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform 
Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
    Sec. 205.  Funds of the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
subject to the Government Corporation Control Act or section 402 of the 
Housing Act of 1950 shall be available, without regard to the 
limitations on administrative expenses, for legal services on a 
contract or fee basis, and for utilizing and making payment for 
services and facilities of the Federal National Mortgage Association, 
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks or any 
member thereof, Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured bank within 
the meaning of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, as 
amended (12 U.S.C. 1811-1).
    Sec. 206.  Unless otherwise provided for in this Act or through a 
reprogramming of funds, no part of any appropriation for the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development shall be available for any program, 
project or activity in excess of amounts set forth in the budget 
estimates submitted to Congress.
    Sec. 207.  Corporations and agencies of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development which are subject to the Government Corporation 
Control Act are hereby authorized to make such expenditures, within the 
limits of funds and borrowing authority available to each such 
corporation or agency and in accordance with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 104 of such Act as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the budget for 2017 for such corporation or 
agency except as hereinafter provided: Provided, That collections of 
these corporations and agencies may be used for new loan or mortgage 
purchase commitments only to the extent expressly provided for in this 
Act (unless such loans are in support of other forms of assistance 
provided for in this or prior appropriations Acts), except that this 
proviso shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or guaranty 
operations of these corporations, or where loans or mortgage purchases 
are necessary to protect the financial interest of the United States 
Government.
    Sec. 208.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
provide quarterly reports to the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations regarding all uncommitted, unobligated, recaptured and 
excess funds in each program and activity within the jurisdiction of 
the Department and shall submit additional, updated budget information 
to these Committees upon request.
    Sec. 209.  The President's formal budget request for fiscal year 
2018, as well as the Department of Housing and Urban Development's 
congressional budget justifications to be submitted to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall 
use the identical account and sub-account structure provided under this 
Act.
    Sec. 210.  A public housing agency or such other entity that 
administers Federal housing assistance for the Housing Authority of the 
county of Los Angeles, California, and the States of Alaska, Iowa, and 
Mississippi shall not be required to include a resident of public 
housing or a recipient of assistance provided under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 on the board of directors or a 
similar governing board of such agency or entity as required under 
section (2)(b) of such Act. Each public housing agency or other entity 
that administers Federal housing assistance under section 8 for the 
Housing Authority of the county of Los Angeles, California and the 
States of Alaska, Iowa and Mississippi that chooses not to include a 
resident of public housing or a recipient of section 8 assistance on 
the board of directors or a similar governing board shall establish an 
advisory board of not less than six residents of public housing or 
recipients of section 8 assistance to provide advice and comment to the 
public housing agency or other administering entity on issues related 
to public housing and section 8. Such advisory board shall meet not 
less than quarterly.
    Sec. 211.  No funds provided under this title may be used for an 
audit of the Government National Mortgage Association that makes 
applicable requirements under the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 
U.S.C. 661 et seq.).
    Sec. 212. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, subject 
to the conditions listed under this section, for fiscal years 2017 and 
2018, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may authorize the 
transfer of some or all project-based assistance, debt held or insured 
by the Secretary and statutorily required low-income and very low-
income use restrictions if any, associated with one or more multifamily 
housing project or projects to another multifamily housing project or 
projects.
    (b) Phased Transfers.--Transfers of project-based assistance under 
this section may be done in phases to accommodate the financing and 
other requirements related to rehabilitating or constructing the 
project or projects to which the assistance is transferred, to ensure 
that such project or projects meet the standards under subsection (c).
    (c) The transfer authorized in subsection (a) is subject to the 
following conditions:
            (1) Number and bedroom size of units.--
                    (A) For occupied units in the transferring project: 
                The number of low-income and very low-income units and 
                the configuration (i.e., bedroom size) provided by the 
                transferring project shall be no less than when 
                transferred to the receiving project or projects and 
                the net dollar amount of Federal assistance provided to 
                the transferring project shall remain the same in the 
                receiving project or projects.
                    (B) For unoccupied units in the transferring 
                project: The Secretary may authorize a reduction in the 
                number of dwelling units in the receiving project or 
                projects to allow for a reconfiguration of bedroom 
                sizes to meet current market demands, as determined by 
                the Secretary and provided there is no increase in the 
                project-based assistance budget authority.
            (2) The transferring project shall, as determined by the 
        Secretary, be either physically obsolete or economically 
        nonviable.
            (3) The receiving project or projects shall meet or exceed 
        applicable physical standards established by the Secretary.
            (4) The owner or mortgagor of the transferring project 
        shall notify and consult with the tenants residing in the 
        transferring project and provide a certification of approval by 
        all appropriate local governmental officials.
            (5) The tenants of the transferring project who remain 
        eligible for assistance to be provided by the receiving project 
        or projects shall not be required to vacate their units in the 
        transferring project or projects until new units in the 
        receiving project are available for occupancy.
            (6) The Secretary determines that this transfer is in the 
        best interest of the tenants.
            (7) If either the transferring project or the receiving 
        project or projects meets the condition specified in subsection 
        (d)(2)(A), any lien on the receiving project resulting from 
        additional financing obtained by the owner shall be subordinate 
        to any FHA-insured mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on, 
        such project by the Secretary, except that the Secretary may 
        waive this requirement upon determination that such a waiver is 
        necessary to facilitate the financing of acquisition, 
        construction, and/or rehabilitation of the receiving project or 
        projects.
            (8) If the transferring project meets the requirements of 
        subsection (d)(2), the owner or mortgagor of the receiving 
        project or projects shall execute and record either a 
        continuation of the existing use agreement or a new use 
        agreement for the project where, in either case, any use 
        restrictions in such agreement are of no lesser duration than 
        the existing use restrictions.
            (9) The transfer does not increase the cost (as defined in 
        section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as 
        amended) of any FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent that 
        appropriations are provided in advance for the amount of any 
        such increased cost.
    (d) For purposes of this section--
            (1) the terms ``low-income'' and ``very low-income'' shall 
        have the meanings provided by the statute and/or regulations 
        governing the program under which the project is insured or 
        assisted;
            (2) the term ``multifamily housing project'' means housing 
        that meets one of the following conditions--
                    (A) housing that is subject to a mortgage insured 
                under the National Housing Act;
                    (B) housing that has project-based assistance 
                attached to the structure including projects undergoing 
                mark to market debt restructuring under the Multifamily 
                Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Housing Act;
                    (C) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959, as amended by section 801 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act;
                    (D) housing that is assisted under section 202 of 
                the Housing Act of 1959, as such section existed before 
                the enactment of the Cranston-Gonzales National 
                Affordable Housing Act;
                    (E) housing that is assisted under section 811 of 
                the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act; 
                or
                    (F) housing or vacant land that is subject to a use 
                agreement;
            (3) the term ``project-based assistance'' means--
                    (A) assistance provided under section 8(b) of the 
                United States Housing Act of 1937;
                    (B) assistance for housing constructed or 
                substantially rehabilitated pursuant to assistance 
                provided under section 8(b)(2) of such Act (as such 
                section existed immediately before October 1, 1983);
                    (C) rent supplement payments under section 101 of 
                the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965;
                    (D) interest reduction payments under section 236 
                and/or additional assistance payments under section 
                236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act;
                    (E) assistance payments made under section 
                202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959; and
                    (F) assistance payments made under section 
                811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable 
                Housing Act;
            (4) the term ``receiving project or projects'' means the 
        multifamily housing project or projects to which some or all of 
        the project-based assistance, debt, and statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions are to be 
        transferred;
            (5) the term ``transferring project'' means the multifamily 
        housing project which is transferring some or all of the 
        project-based assistance, debt, and the statutorily required 
        low-income and very low-income use restrictions to the 
        receiving project or projects; and
            (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Housing 
        and Urban Development.
    (e) Public Notice and Research Report.--
            (1) The Secretary shall publish by notice in the Federal 
        Register the terms and conditions, including criteria for HUD 
        approval, of transfers pursuant to this section no later than 
        30 days before the effective date of such notice.
            (2) The Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of the 
        transfer authority under this section, including the effect of 
        such transfers on the operational efficiency, contract rents, 
        physical and financial conditions, and long-term preservation 
        of the affected properties.
    Sec. 213. (a) No assistance shall be provided under section 8 of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to any 
individual who--
            (1) is enrolled as a student at an institution of higher 
        education (as defined under section 102 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
            (2) is under 24 years of age;
            (3) is not a veteran;
            (4) is unmarried;
            (5) does not have a dependent child;
            (6) is not a person with disabilities, as such term is 
        defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the United States Housing Act 
        of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving 
        assistance under such section 8 as of November 30, 2005; and
            (7) is not otherwise individually eligible, or has parents 
        who, individually or jointly, are not eligible, to receive 
        assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
        1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
    (b) For purposes of determining the eligibility of a person to 
receive assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial assistance (in excess of amounts 
received for tuition and any other required fees and charges) that an 
individual receives under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1001 et seq.), from private sources, or an institution of higher 
education (as defined under the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1002)), shall be considered income to that individual, except for a 
person over the age of 23 with dependent children.
    Sec. 214.  The funds made available for Native Alaskans under the 
heading ``Native American Housing Block Grants'' in title II of this 
Act shall be allocated to the same Native Alaskan housing block grant 
recipients that received funds in fiscal year 2005.
    Sec. 215.  Notwithstanding the limitation in the first sentence of 
section 255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)), the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may, until September 30, 
2017, insure and enter into commitments to insure mortgages under such 
section 255.
    Sec. 216.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal 
year 2017, in managing and disposing of any multifamily property that 
is owned or has a mortgage held by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development, and during the process of foreclosure on any property with 
a contract for rental assistance payments under section 8 of the United 
States Housing Act of 1937 or other Federal programs, the Secretary 
shall maintain any rental assistance payments under section 8 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 and other programs that are attached 
to any dwelling units in the property. To the extent the Secretary 
determines, in consultation with the tenants and the local government, 
that such a multifamily property owned or held by the Secretary is not 
feasible for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 
or other programs, based on consideration of (1) the costs of 
rehabilitating and operating the property and all available Federal, 
State, and local resources, including rent adjustments under section 
524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
1997 (``MAHRAA'') and (2) environmental conditions that cannot be 
remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may, in 
consultation with the tenants of that property, contract for project-
based rental assistance payments with an owner or owners of other 
existing housing properties, or provide other rental assistance. The 
Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that project-
based contracts remain in effect prior to foreclosure, subject to the 
exercise of contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of 
tenants for imminent major threats to health and safety after written 
notice to and informed consent of the affected tenants and use of other 
available remedies, such as partial abatements or receivership. After 
disposition of any multifamily property described under this section, 
the contract and allowable rent levels on such properties shall be 
subject to the requirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.
    Sec. 217.  The commitment authority funded by fees as provided 
under the heading ``Community Development Loan Guarantees Program 
Account'' may be used to guarantee, or make commitments to guarantee, 
notes, or other obligations issued by any State on behalf of non-
entitlement communities in the State in accordance with the 
requirements of section 108 of the Housing and Community Development 
Act of 1974: Provided, That any State receiving such a guarantee or 
commitment shall distribute all funds subject to such guarantee to the 
units of general local government in non-entitlement areas that 
received the commitment.
    Sec. 218.  Public housing agencies that own and operate 400 or 
fewer public housing units may elect to be exempt from any asset 
management requirement imposed by the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development in connection with the operating fund rule: Provided, That 
an agency seeking a discontinuance of a reduction of subsidy under the 
operating fund formula shall not be exempt from asset management 
requirements.
    Sec. 219.  With respect to the use of amounts provided in this Act 
and in future Acts for the operation, capital improvement and 
management of public housing as authorized by sections 9(d) and 9(e) of 
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(d) and (e)), the 
Secretary shall not impose any requirement or guideline relating to 
asset management that restricts or limits in any way the use of capital 
funds for central office costs pursuant to section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2) 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)): 
Provided, That a public housing agency may not use capital funds 
authorized under section 9(d) for activities that are eligible under 
section 9(e) for assistance with amounts from the operating fund in 
excess of the amounts permitted under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
    Sec. 220.  No official or employee of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development shall be designated as an allotment holder unless the 
Office of the Chief Financial Officer has determined that such 
allotment holder has implemented an adequate system of funds control 
and has received training in funds control procedures and directives. 
The Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that there is a trained 
allotment holder for each HUD sub-office under the accounts ``Executive 
Offices'' and ``Administrative Support Offices,'' as well as each 
account receiving appropriations for ``Program Office Salaries and 
Expenses'', ``Government National Mortgage Association--Guarantees of 
Mortgage-Backed Securities Loan Guarantee Program Account'', and 
``Office of Inspector General'' within the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development.
    Sec. 221.  The Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development shall, for fiscal year 2017, notify the public through the 
Federal Register and other means, as determined appropriate, of the 
issuance of a notice of the availability of assistance or notice of 
funding availability (NOFA) for any program or discretionary fund 
administered by the Secretary that is to be competitively awarded. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal year 2017, the 
Secretary may make the NOFA available only on the Internet at the 
appropriate Government web site or through other electronic media, as 
determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 222.  Payment of attorney fees in program-related litigation 
shall be paid from the individual program office and Office of General 
Counsel salaries and expenses appropriations. The annual budget 
submission for the program offices and the Office of General Counsel 
shall include any such projected litigation costs for attorney fees as 
a separate line item request. No funds provided in this title may be 
used to pay any such litigation costs for attorney fees until the 
Department submits for review a spending plan for such costs to the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 223.  The Secretary is authorized to transfer up to 10 percent 
or $4,000,000, whichever is less, of funds appropriated for any office 
under the heading ``Administrative Support Offices'' or for any account 
under the general heading ``Program Office Salaries and Expenses'' to 
any other such office or account: Provided, That no appropriation for 
any such office or account shall be increased or decreased by more than 
10 percent or $4,000,000, whichever is less, without prior written 
approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall provide notification to such 
Committees three business days in advance of any such transfers under 
this section up to 10 percent or $4,000,000, whichever is less.
    Sec. 224.  The Disaster Housing Assistance Programs, administered 
by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, shall be considered 
a ``program of the Department of Housing and Urban Development'' under 
section 904 of the McKinney Act for the purpose of income verifications 
and matching.
    Sec. 225. (a) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall 
take the required actions under subsection (b) when a multifamily 
housing project with a section 8 contract or contract for similar 
project-based assistance:
            (1) receives a Real Estate Assessment Center (REAC) score 
        of 30 or less; or
            (2) receives a REAC score between 31 and 59 and:
                    (A) fails to certify in writing to HUD within 60 
                days that all deficiencies have been corrected; or
                    (B) receives consecutive scores of less than 60 on 
                REAC inspections.
Such requirements shall apply to insured and noninsured projects with 
assistance attached to the units under section 8 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), but do not apply to such units 
assisted under section 8(o)(13) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)) or to public 
housing units assisted with capital or operating funds under section 9 
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g).
    (b) The Secretary shall take the following required actions as 
authorized under subsection (a):
            (1) The Secretary shall notify the owner and provide an 
        opportunity for response within 30 days. If the violations 
        remain, the Secretary shall develop a Compliance, Disposition 
        and Enforcement Plan within 60 days, with a specified timetable 
        for correcting all deficiencies. The Secretary shall provide 
        notice of the Plan to the owner, tenants, the local government, 
        any mortgagees, and any contract administrator.
            (2) At the end of the term of the Compliance, Disposition 
        and Enforcement Plan, if the owner fails to fully comply with 
        such plan, the Secretary may require immediate replacement of 
        project management with a management agent approved by the 
        Secretary, and shall take one or more of the following actions, 
        and provide additional notice of those actions to the owner and 
        the parties specified above:
                    (A) impose civil money penalties;
                    (B) abate the section 8 contract, including partial 
                abatement, as determined by the Secretary, until all 
                deficiencies have been corrected;
                    (C) pursue transfer of the project to an owner, 
                approved by the Secretary under established procedures, 
                which will be obligated to promptly make all required 
                repairs and to accept renewal of the assistance 
                contract as long as such renewal is offered; or
                    (D) seek judicial appointment of a receiver to 
                manage the property and cure all project deficiencies 
                or seek a judicial order of specific performance 
                requiring the owner to cure all project deficiencies.
    (c) The Secretary shall also take appropriate steps to ensure that 
project-based contracts remain in effect, subject to the exercise of 
contractual abatement remedies to assist relocation of tenants for 
imminent major threats to health and safety after written notice to and 
informed consent of the affected tenants and use of other remedies set 
forth above. To the extent the Secretary determines, in consultation 
with the tenants and the local government, that the property is not 
feasible for continued rental assistance payments under such section 8 
or other programs, based on consideration of (1) the costs of 
rehabilitating and operating the property and all available Federal, 
State, and local resources, including rent adjustments under section 
524 of the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 
1997 (``MAHRAA'') and (2) environmental conditions that cannot be 
remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the Secretary may, in 
consultation with the tenants of that property, contract for project-
based rental assistance payments with an owner or owners of other 
existing housing properties, or provide other rental assistance. The 
Secretary shall report semi-annually on all properties covered by this 
section that are assessed through the Real Estate Assessment Center and 
have physical inspection scores of less than 30 or have consecutive 
physical inspection scores of less than 60. The report shall include:
            (1) The enforcement actions being taken to address such 
        conditions, including imposition of civil money penalties and 
        termination of subsidies, and identify properties that have 
        such conditions multiple times; and
            (2) Actions that the Department of Housing and Urban 
        Development is taking to protect tenants of such identified 
        properties.
    Sec. 226.  None of the funds made available by this Act, or any 
other Act, for purposes authorized under section 8 (only with respect 
to the tenant-based rental assistance program) and section 9 of the 
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.), may be used 
by any public housing agency for any amount of salary, including 
bonuses, for the chief executive officer of which, or any other 
official or employee of which, that exceeds the annual rate of basic 
pay payable for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule at any 
time during any public housing agency fiscal year 2017.
    Sec. 227.  None of the funds in this Act may be available for the 
doctoral dissertation research grant program at the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development.
    Sec. 228.  None of the funds in this Act provided to the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development may be used to make a grant award 
unless the Secretary notifies the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations not less than 3 full business days before any project, 
State, locality, housing authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or 
other entity selected to receive a grant award is announced by the 
Department or its offices.
    Sec. 229.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to require or enforce the Physical Needs Assessment (PNA).
    Sec. 230.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used by the Federal Housing Administration, the Government National 
Mortgage Administration, or the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development to insure, securitize, or establish a Federal guarantee of 
any mortgage or mortgage backed security that refinances or otherwise 
replaces a mortgage that has been subject to eminent domain 
condemnation or seizure, by a State, municipality, or any other 
political subdivision of a State.
    Sec. 231.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to terminate the status of a unit of general local government as a 
metropolitan city (as defined in section 102 of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) with respect to 
grants under section 106 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306).
    Sec. 232.  Amounts made available under this Act which are either 
appropriated, allocated, advanced on a reimbursable basis, or 
transferred to the Office of Policy Development and Research in the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development and functions thereof, for 
research, evaluation, or statistical purposes, and which are unexpended 
at the time of completion of a contract, grant, or cooperative 
agreement, may be deobligated and shall immediately become available 
and may be reobligated in that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal 
year for the research, evaluation, or statistical purposes for which 
the amounts are made available to that Office subject to reprogramming 
requirements in section 405 of this Act.
    Sec. 233.  None of the funds provided in this Act or any other act 
may be used for awards, including performance, special act, or spot, 
for any employee of the Department of Housing and Urban Development who 
has been subject to administrative discipline in fiscal years 2016 or 
2017, including suspension from work.
    Sec. 234.  Unobligated balances, including recaptures and 
carryover, remaining from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development for administrative costs of the Office of 
Community Planning and Development associated with funds appropriated 
to the Department for specific disaster relief and related purposes and 
designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act, including information technology costs 
and costs for administering and overseeing such specific disaster 
related funds, shall be transferred to the Program Office Salaries and 
Expenses, Community Planning and Development account for the 
Department, shall remain available until expended, and may be used for 
such administrative costs for administering any funds appropriated to 
the Department for any disaster relief and related purposes in any 
prior or future act, notwithstanding the purposes for which such funds 
were appropriated: Provided, That amounts transferred pursuant to this 
section that were previously designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to a Concurrent Resolution on the Budget or the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act are designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 and shall be transferred only if the President subsequently 
so designates the entire transfer and transmits such designation to the 
Congress.
    Sec. 235.  CONTINUUM OF CARE TRANSITION GRANTS.--
    (a) From amounts made available under this title under the heading 
``Homeless Assistance Grants'', the Secretary may award 1-year 
transition grants to recipients of funds for activities under subtitle 
C of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11381 et 
seq.) to transition from one Continuum of Care program component to 
another.
    (b) No more than 25 percent of each transition grant may be used 
for costs of eligible activities of the program component originally 
funded.
    (c) Transition grants made under this section are eligible for 
renewal in subsequent fiscal years for the eligible activities of the 
new program component.
    (d) In order to be eligible to receive a transition grant, the 
funding recipient must have the consent of the Continuum of Care and 
meet standards determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 236.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act shall be used 
to implement, administer, carry-out, or enforce Executive Order 13690 
and the Federal Flood Risk Management Standard (FFRMS) until 90 days 
after the Secretary provides a report to the House and Senate 
Committees on Appropriations that includes:
    (a) a comprehensive list of HUD programs that will be impacted by 
Executive Order 13690 and the FFRMS;
    (b) an analysis of the near term and long term costs and benefits 
of Executive Order 13690 and the FFRMS; and
    (c) a detailed nationwide floodplain map, including descriptions, 
definitions, and extent associated with the floodplain definitions set 
forth in Executive Order 13690 and the FFRMS.
    Sec. 237. (a) Effective October 1, 2016, all unobligated balances, 
including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds appropriated 
to the Department of Housing and Urban Development for accounts under 
the headings ``Management and Administration'' and ``Program Office 
Salaries and Expenses'' in division L of Public Law 114-113 are 
rescinded; and
    (b) All unobligated balances available, and that become available, 
as a result of actions under 42 U.S.C. 5304(e) or 42 U.S.C. 5311 are 
hereby rescinded.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Appropriations Act, 2017''.

                      TITLE III--RELATED AGENCIES

                              Access Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Access Board, as authorized by 
section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, $8,190,000: 
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, there may 
be credited to this appropriation funds received for publications and 
training expenses.

                      Federal Maritime Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Maritime Commission as 
authorized by section 201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as 
amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances therefor e, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 5901-5902, $27,490,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.

  National Railroad Passenger Corporation Office of Inspector General

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General for the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation to carry out the provisions of 
the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, $23,274,000: Provided, 
That the Inspector General shall have all necessary authority, in 
carrying out the duties specified in the Inspector General Act, as 
amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of fraud, 
including false statements to the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any 
person or entity that is subject to regulation by the National Railroad 
Passenger Corporation: Provided further, That the Inspector General may 
enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits, studies, 
analyses, and other services with public agencies and with private 
persons, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that govern the 
obtaining of such services within the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation: Provided further, That the Inspector General may select, 
appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for 
carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office of 
Inspector General, subject to the applicable laws and regulations that 
govern such selections, appointments, and employment within the 
Corporation: Provided further, That concurrent with the President's 
budget request for fiscal year 2017, the Inspector General shall submit 
to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations a budget request 
for fiscal year 2017 in similar format and substance to those submitted 
by executive agencies of the Federal Government.

                  National Transportation Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Transportation Safety Board, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed 
the per diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS-15; uniforms, or 
allowances therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901-5902), 
$106,000,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for official 
reception and representation expenses. The amounts made available to 
the National Transportation Safety Board in this Act include amounts 
necessary to make lease payments on an obligation incurred in fiscal 
year 2001 for a capital lease.

                 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

          payment to the neighborhood reinvestment corporation

    For payment to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation for use in 
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as authorized by the Neighborhood 
Reinvestment Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101-8107), $140,000,000, of 
which $5,000,000 shall be for a multi-family rental housing program.

                      Surface Transportation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Surface Transportation Board, 
including services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,000,000: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed 
$1,250,000 from fees established by the Chairman of the Surface 
Transportation Board shall be credited to this appropriation as 
offsetting collections and used for necessary and authorized expenses 
under this heading: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated 
from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as 
such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2017, to 
result in a final appropriation from the general fund estimated at no 
more than $35,750,000.

           United States Interagency Council on Homelessness

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference 
rooms, and the employment of experts and consultants under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code) of the United States Interagency 
Council on Homelessness in carrying out the functions pursuant to title 
II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended, 
$2,000,000.
    

                                TITLE IV

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

                        (including rescissions)

    Sec. 401.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 403.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through a procurement contract pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 404. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 405. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the agencies or entities funded in this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2017, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees and 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates a new program;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by 
        the Congress;
            (4) proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity 
        by either the House or Senate Committees on Appropriations for 
        a different purpose;
            (5) augments existing programs, projects, or activities in 
        excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less;
            (6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by 
        $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a branch, 
        division, office, bureau, board, commission, agency, 
        administration, or department different from the budget 
        justifications submitted to the Committees on Appropriations or 
        the table accompanying the explanatory statement accompanying 
        this Act, whichever is more detailed, unless prior approval is 
        received from the House and Senate Committees on 
        Appropriations: Provided, That not later than 60 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, each agency funded by this Act 
        shall submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of 
        the Senate and of the House of Representatives to establish the 
        baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer 
        authorities for the current fiscal year: Provided further, That 
        the report shall include--
                    (A) a table for each appropriation with a separate 
                column to display the prior year enacted level, the 
                President's budget request, adjustments made by 
                Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if 
                appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
                    (B) a delineation in the table for each 
                appropriation and its respective prior year enacted 
                level by object class and program, project, and 
                activity as detailed in the budget appendix for the 
                respective appropriation; and
                    (C) an identification of items of special 
                congressional interest.
    Sec. 406.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2017 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2017 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2018, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the House 
and Senate Committees on Appropriations for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines under section 405 
of this Act.
    Sec. 407.  No funds in this Act may be used to support any Federal, 
State, or local projects that seek to use the power of eminent domain, 
unless eminent domain is employed only for a public use: Provided, That 
for purposes of this section, public use shall not be construed to 
include economic development that primarily benefits private entities: 
Provided further, That any use of funds for mass transit, railroad, 
airport, seaport or highway projects, as well as utility projects which 
benefit or serve the general public (including energy-related, 
communication-related, water-related and wastewater-related 
infrastructure), other structures designated for use by the general 
public or which have other common-carrier or public-utility functions 
that serve the general public and are subject to regulation and 
oversight by the government, and projects for the removal of an 
immediate threat to public health and safety or brownfields as defined 
in the Small Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization 
Act (Public Law 107-118) shall be considered a public use for purposes 
of eminent domain.
    Sec. 408.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 409.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be available to pay the salary for any person filling a position, other 
than a temporary position, formerly held by an employee who has left to 
enter the Armed Forces of the United States and has satisfactorily 
completed his or her period of active military or naval service, and 
has within 90 days after his or her release from such service or from 
hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more 
than 1 year, made application for restoration to his or her former 
position and has been certified by the Office of Personnel Management 
as still qualified to perform the duties of his or her former position 
and has not been restored thereto.
    Sec. 410.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act 
of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy 
American Act'').
    Sec. 411.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c).
    Sec. 412.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for first-class airline accommodations in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 and 301-10.123 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 413. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used to approve a new foreign air carrier permit under sections 41301 
through 41305 of title 49, United States Code, or exemption application 
under section 40109 of that title of an air carrier already holding an 
air operators certificate issued by a country that is party to the 
U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement where such approval 
would contravene United States law or Article 17 bis of the U.S.-E.U.-
Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict or otherwise 
preclude the Secretary of Transportation from granting a foreign air 
carrier permit or an exemption to such an air carrier where such 
authorization is consistent with the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air 
Transport Agreement and United States law.
    Sec. 414.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees 
of a single agency or department of the United States Government, who 
are stationed in the United States, at any single international 
conference unless the relevant Secretary reports to the House and 
Senate Committees on Appropriations at least 5 days in advance that 
such attendance is important to the national interest: Provided, That 
for purposes of this section the term ``international conference'' 
shall mean a conference occurring outside of the United States attended 
by representatives of the United States Government and of foreign 
governments, international organizations, or nongovernmental 
organizations.
    Sec. 415.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Transportation, the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, or any other Federal agency to lease or purchase new 
light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or for an agency's fleet 
inventory, except in accordance with Presidential Memorandum--Federal 
Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 416.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Surface Transportation 
Board of the Department of Transportation to charge or collect any 
filing fee for rate or practice complaints filed with the Board in an 
amount in excess of the amount authorized for district court civil suit 
filing fees under section 1914 of title 28, United States Code.
    Sec. 417.  Effective October 1, 2016, all unobligated balances, 
including recaptures and carryover, remaining from funds appropriated 
in division L of Public Law 114-113 for ``Department of Transportation-
Office of the Secretary-Salaries and Expenses'', ``Department of 
Transportation-Office of the Secretary-Office of Civil Rights'', 
``Department of Transportation-Office of the Secretary-Minority 
Business Outreach'', ``Department of Transportation-Federal Transit 
Administration-Administrative Expenses'', ``Department of 
Transportation-Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration-
Operational Expenses'', ``Department of Transportation-Surface 
Transportation Board-Salaries and Expenses'', ``Access Board-Salaries 
and Expenses'', ``Federal Maritime Commission-Salaries and Expenses'', 
``National Railroad Passenger Corporation-Office of Inspector General-
Salaries and Expenses'', ``National Transportation Safety Board-
Salaries and Expenses'', and ``United States Interagency Council on 
Homelessness-Operating Expenses'' are rescinded.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 418.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under Section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is $0.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Transportation, Housing and Urban 
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 472

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5394

                          [Report No. 114-606]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   Making appropriations for the Departments of Transportation, and 
Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              June 7, 2016

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
