[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3281 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3281

   To authorize the purchase of a small parcel of Natural Resources 
    Conservation Service property in Riverside, California, by the 
    Riverside Corona Resource Conservation District, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 29, 2015

Mr. Calvert (for himself and Mr. Takano) introduced the following bill; 
           which was referred to the Committee on Agriculture

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To authorize the purchase of a small parcel of Natural Resources 
    Conservation Service property in Riverside, California, by the 
    Riverside Corona Resource Conservation District, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds as follows:
            (1) Since 1935, the United States has owned a parcel of 
        land in Riverside, California, consisting of approximately 8.75 
        acres, more specifically described in section 2(a) (in this 
        section referred to as the ``property'').
            (2) The property is under the jurisdiction of the 
        Department of Agriculture and has been variously used for 
        research and plant materials purposes.
            (3) Since 1998, the property has been administered by the 
        Natural Resources Conservation Service of the Department of 
        Agriculture.
            (4) Since 2002, the property has been co-managed under a 
        cooperative agreement between the Natural Resources 
        Conservation Service and the Riverside Corona Resource 
        Conservation District, which is a legal subdivision of the 
        State of California under section 9003 of the California Public 
        Resources Code.
            (5) The Conservation District wishes to purchase the 
        property and use it for conservation, environmental, and 
        related educational purposes.
            (6) As provided in section 2, the purchase of the property 
        by the Conservation District would promote the conservation 
        education and related activities of the Conservation District 
        and result in savings to the Federal Government.

SEC. 2. LAND PURCHASE, NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE PROPERTY, 
              RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Purchase Authorized.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall sell 
and quitclaim to the Riverside Corona Resource Conservation District 
(in this section referred to as the ``Conservation District'') all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of 
real property, including improvements thereon, that is located at 4500 
Glenwood Drive in Riverside, California, consists of approximately 8.75 
acres, and is administered by the Natural Resources Conservation 
Service of the Department of Agriculture. As necessary or desirable to 
facilitate the purchase of the property under this section, the 
Secretary or the Conservation District may survey all or portions of 
the property.
    (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the purchase of the 
property under this section, the Conservation District shall pay to the 
Secretary of Agriculture an amount equal to the appraised value of the 
property.
    (c) Deposit and Use of Consideration.--The amounts received as 
consideration under subsection (b) may be credited to the applicable 
appropriation of the Natural Resources Conservation Service for 
conservation operations in California and shall remain available, 
without further appropriation, until expended as the Secretary of 
Agriculture may direct.
    (d) Prohibition on Reservation of Interest.--The Secretary of 
Agriculture shall not reserve any future interest in the property to be 
conveyed under this section, except such interest as may be acceptable 
to the Conservation District.
    (e) Hazardous Substances.--Notwithstanding section 120(h) of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)) or the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 
6901 et seq.), in the case of the property purchased by the 
Conservation District under this section, the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall be only required to meet the disclosure requirements for 
hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants, but shall otherwise 
not be required to remediate or abate any such releases of hazardous 
substances, pollutants, or contaminants, including petroleum and 
petroleum derivatives.
    (f) Cooperative Authority.--
            (1) Leases, contracts, and cooperative agreements 
        authorized.--In conjunction with, or in addition to, the 
        purchase of the property by the Conservation District under 
        this section, the Secretary of Agriculture may enter into 
        leases, contracts and cooperative agreements with the 
        Conservation District.
            (2) Sole source.--Notwithstanding sections 3105, 3301, and 
        3303 to 3305 of title 41, United States Code, or any other 
        provision of law, the Secretary may lease real property from 
        the Conservation District on a noncompetitive basis.
            (3) Non-exclusive authority.--The authority provided by 
        this subsection is in addition to any other authority of the 
        Secretary.
                                 <all>
