[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2956 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 474
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2956

                          [Report No. 114-259]

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 19, 2016

Mr. Moran, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the following 
     original bill; which was read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

                 Production, Processing, and Marketing

                        Office of the Secretary

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Secretary, $54,150,000, 
of which not to exceed $10,178,000 shall be available for the immediate 
Office of the Secretary, of which not to exceed $253,000 shall be 
available for the Military Veterans Agricultural Liaison, and of which 
not to exceed $5,000,000 shall be available for outreach services 
supporting veteran farmers and ranchers; not to exceed $505,000 shall 
be available for the Office of Tribal Relations; not to exceed 
$1,592,000 shall be available for the Office of Homeland Security and 
Emergency Coordination; not to exceed $4,220,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Advocacy and Outreach; not to exceed $26,203,000 shall be 
available for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration, 
of which $25,396,000 shall be available for Departmental Administration 
to provide for necessary expenses for management support services to 
offices of the Department and for general administration, security, 
repairs and alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies and expenses 
not otherwise provided for and necessary for the practical and 
efficient work of the Department; not to exceed $3,919,000 shall be 
available for the Office of Assistant Secretary for Congressional 
Relations to carry out the programs funded by this Act, including 
programs involving intergovernmental affairs and liaison within the 
executive branch; and not to exceed $7,533,000 shall be available for 
the Office of Communications:  Provided, That the Secretary of 
Agriculture is authorized to transfer funds appropriated for any office 
of the Office of the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the 
Secretary:  Provided further, That no appropriation for any office 
shall be increased or decreased by more than 5 percent:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $11,000 of the amount made available under 
this paragraph for the immediate Office of the Secretary shall be 
available for official reception and representation expenses, not 
otherwise provided for, as determined by the Secretary:  Provided 
further, That the amount made available under this heading for 
Departmental Administration shall be reimbursed from applicable 
appropriations in this Act for travel expenses incident to the holding 
of hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551-558:  Provided further, That 
funds made available under this heading for the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Congressional Relations may be transferred to agencies of 
the Department of Agriculture funded by this Act to maintain personnel 
at the agency level:  Provided further, That no funds made available 
under this heading for the Office of Assistant Secretary for 
Congressional Relations may be obligated after 30 days from the date of 
enactment of this Act, unless the Secretary has notified the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress on the allocation of these 
funds by USDA agency:  Provided further, That within 180 days of the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
the report required in section 7 U.S.C. 6935(b)(3).

                          Executive Operations

                     office of the chief economist

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Economist, 
$16,917,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be for grants or cooperative 
agreements for policy research under 7 U.S.C. 3155.

                       national appeals division

    For necessary expenses of the National Appeals Division, 
$13,481,000.

                 office of budget and program analysis

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Budget and Program 
Analysis, $9,525,000.

                Office of the Chief Information Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, $49,917,000, of which not less than $33,000,000 is for 
cybersecurity requirements of the Department.

                 Office of the Chief Financial Officer

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Chief Financial 
Officer, $8,119,000.

           Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Civil Rights, $901,000.

                         Office of Civil Rights

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Civil Rights, $24,342,000.

                  Agriculture Buildings and Facilities

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For payment of space rental and related costs pursuant to Public 
Law 92-313, including authorities pursuant to the 1984 delegation of 
authority from the Administrator of General Services to the Department 
of Agriculture under 40 U.S.C. 121, for programs and activities of the 
Department which are included in this Act, and for alterations and 
other actions needed for the Department and its agencies to consolidate 
unneeded space into configurations suitable for release to the 
Administrator of General Services, and for the operation, maintenance, 
improvement, and repair of Agriculture buildings and facilities, and 
for related costs, $74,365,000, to remain available until expended, for 
buildings operations and maintenance expenses.

                     Hazardous Materials Management

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Agriculture, to comply 
with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and the Resource Conservation 
and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $3,633,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That appropriations and funds 
available herein to the Department for Hazardous Materials Management 
may be transferred to any agency of the Department for its use in 
meeting all requirements pursuant to the above Acts on Federal and non-
Federal lands.

                      Office of Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
including employment pursuant to the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$99,378,000, including such sums as may be necessary for contracting 
and other arrangements with public agencies and private persons 
pursuant to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, and 
including not to exceed $125,000 for certain confidential operational 
expenses, including the payment of informants, to be expended under the 
direction of the Inspector General pursuant to Public Law 95-452 and 
section 1337 of Public Law 97-98.

                     Office of the General Counsel

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the General Counsel, 
$45,010,000.

                            Office of Ethics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Ethics, $3,715,000.

  Office of the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Research, Education, and Economics, $901,000.

                       Economic Research Service

    For necessary expenses of the Economic Research Service, 
$86,757,000.

                National Agricultural Statistics Service

    For necessary expenses of the National Agricultural Statistics 
Service, $169,639,000, of which up to $42,177,000 shall be available 
until expended for the Census of Agriculture:  Provided, That amounts 
made available for the Census of Agriculture may be used to conduct 
Current Industrial Report surveys subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and (f).

                     Agricultural Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Research Service and for 
acquisition of lands by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal 
cost not to exceed $100, and for land exchanges where the lands 
exchanged shall be of equal value or shall be equalized by a payment of 
money to the grantor which shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
value of the land or interests transferred out of Federal ownership, 
$1,177,938,000:  Provided, That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available for the operation and maintenance of aircraft and the 
purchase of not to exceed one for replacement only:  Provided further, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and 
improvements, but unless otherwise provided, the cost of constructing 
any one building shall not exceed $500,000, except for headhouses or 
greenhouses which shall each be limited to $1,800,000, except for 10 
buildings to be constructed or improved at a cost not to exceed 
$1,100,000 each, and except for two buildings to be constructed at a 
cost not to exceed $3,000,000 each, and the cost of altering any one 
building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building or $500,000, whichever is 
greater:  Provided further, That the limitations on alterations 
contained in this Act shall not apply to modernization or replacement 
of existing facilities at Beltsville, Maryland:  Provided further, That 
appropriations hereunder shall be available for granting easements at 
the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center:  Provided further, That 
the foregoing limitations shall not apply to replacement of buildings 
needed to carry out the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a):  
Provided further, That appropriations hereunder shall be available for 
granting easements at any Agricultural Research Service location for 
the construction of a research facility by a non-Federal entity for use 
by, and acceptable to, the Agricultural Research Service and a 
condition of the easements shall be that upon completion the facility 
shall be accepted by the Secretary, subject to the availability of 
funds herein, if the Secretary finds that acceptance of the facility is 
in the interest of the United States:  Provided further, That funds may 
be received from any State, other political subdivision, organization, 
or individual for the purpose of establishing or operating any research 
facility or research project of the Agricultural Research Service, as 
authorized by law.

                        buildings and facilities

    For the acquisition of land, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities as 
necessary to carry out the agricultural research programs of the 
Department of Agriculture, where not otherwise provided, $64,300,000 to 
remain available until expended.

               National Institute of Food and Agriculture

                   research and education activities

    For payments to agricultural experiment stations, for cooperative 
forestry and other research, for facilities, and for other expenses, 
$851,496,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, 
specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture, Research and Education Activities'' in the report 
accompanying this Act:  Provided, That funds for research grants for 
1994 institutions, education grants for 1890 institutions, capacity 
building for non-land-grant colleges of agriculture, the agriculture 
and food research initiative, veterinary medicine loan repayment, 
multicultural scholars, graduate fellowship and institution challenge 
grants, and grants management systems shall remain available until 
expended:  Provided further, That each institution eligible to receive 
funds under the Evans-Allen program receives no less than $1,000,000:  
Provided further, That funds for education grants for Alaska Native and 
Native Hawaiian-serving institutions be made available to individual 
eligible institutions or consortia of eligible institutions with funds 
awarded equally to each of the States of Alaska and Hawaii:  Provided 
further, That funds for education grants for 1890 institutions shall be 
made available to institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 
3221 and 3222:  Provided further, That not more than 5 percent of the 
amounts made available by this or any other Act to carry out the 
Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) may be 
retained by the Secretary of Agriculture to pay administrative costs 
incurred by the Secretary in carrying out that authority.

 hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities endowment fund

    For the Hispanic-Serving Agricultural colleges and Universities 
Endowment Fund under section 1456(b) of the National Agricultural 
Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 
3243(b)), $10,000,000, to remain available until expended.

              native american institutions endowment fund

    For the Native American Institutions Endowment Fund authorized by 
Public Law 103-382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                          extension activities

    For payments to States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, 
Guam, the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas, and 
American Samoa, $476,230,000, which shall be for the purposes, and in 
the amounts, specified in the table titled ``National Institute of Food 
and Agriculture, Extension Activities'' in the report accompanying this 
Act:  Provided, That funds for facility improvements at 1890 
institutions shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That institutions eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 for 
cooperative extension receive no less than $1,000,000:  Provided 
further, That funds for cooperative extension under sections 3(b) and 
(c) of the Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c)) and section 208(c) 
of Public Law 93-471 shall be available for retirement and employees' 
compensation costs for extension agents.

                         integrated activities

    For the integrated research, education, and extension grants 
programs, including necessary administrative expenses, $36,000,000, 
which shall be for the purposes, and in the amounts, specified in the 
table titled ``National Institute of Food and Agriculture, Integrated 
Activities'' in the report accompanying this Act:  Provided, That funds 
for the Food and Agriculture Defense Initiative shall remain available 
until September 30, 2018:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, indirect costs shall not be charged against any 
Extension Implementation Program Area grant awarded under the Crop 
Protection/Pest Management Program (7 U.S.C. 7626).

  Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Marketing and Regulatory Programs, $901,000.

               Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service, including up to $30,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085), 
$939,286,000, of which $477,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be available for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant 
diseases, animal diseases and for control of pest animals and birds 
(``contingency fund'') to the extent necessary to meet emergency 
conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be used for the cotton pests program for cost share purposes or 
for debt retirement for active eradication zones; of which $35,438,000, 
to remain available until expended, shall be for Animal Health 
Technical Services; of which $706,000 shall be for activities under the 
authority of the Horse Protection Act of 1970, as amended (15 U.S.C. 
1831); of which $55,642,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
be used to support avian health; of which $4,251,000, to remain 
available until expended, shall be for information technology 
infrastructure; of which $158,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for specialty crop pests; of which, $8,915,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for field crop and rangeland 
ecosystem pests; of which $54,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for tree and wood pests; of which $5,723,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for the National Veterinary 
Stockpile; of which up to $1,500,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for the scrapie program for indemnities; of which 
$2,500,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for the 
wildlife damage management program for aviation safety:  Provided, That 
of amounts available under this heading for wildlife services methods 
development, $1,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  
Provided further, That of amounts available under this heading for the 
screwworm program, $4,990,000 shall remain available until expended; of 
which $3,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
National Bio and Agro-Defense human capital development:  Provided 
further, That no funds shall be used to formulate or administer a 
brucellosis eradication program for the current fiscal year that does 
not require minimum matching by the States of at least 40 percent:  
Provided further, That this appropriation shall be available for the 
operation and maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed 
five, of which two shall be for replacement only:  Provided further, 
That in addition, in emergencies which threaten any segment of the 
agricultural production industry of this country, the Secretary may 
transfer from other appropriations or funds available to the agencies 
or corporations of the Department such sums as may be deemed necessary, 
to be available only in such emergencies for the arrest and eradication 
of contagious or infectious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or 
plants, and for expenses in accordance with sections 10411 and 10417 of 
the Animal Health Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and sections 
431 and 442 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and 
any unexpended balances of funds transferred for such emergency 
purposes in the preceding fiscal year shall be merged with such 
transferred amounts:  Provided further, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and 
alteration of leased buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise 
provided the cost of altering any one building during the fiscal year 
shall not exceed 10 percent of the current replacement value of the 
building.
    In fiscal year 2017, the agency is authorized to collect fees to 
cover the total costs of providing technical assistance, goods, or 
services requested by States, other political subdivisions, domestic 
and international organizations, foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such that any entity's liability 
for such fees is reasonably based on the technical assistance, goods, 
or services provided to the entity by the agency, and such fees shall 
be reimbursed to this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for providing such assistance, goods, or 
services.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, preventive maintenance, 
environmental support, improvement, extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and 
acquisition of land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $3,175,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                     Agricultural Marketing Service

                           marketing services

    For necessary expenses of the Agricultural Marketing Service, 
$82,933,000, of which $1,000,000 shall be available for the purposes of 
section 12306 of Public Law 113-79:  Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration 
and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost of altering any 
one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building.
    Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization activities, 
as established by regulation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $61,227,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for administrative expenses:  Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or other uncontrollable events 
occur, the agency may exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent with 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

    funds for strengthening markets, income, and supply (section 32)

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Funds available under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 (7 
U.S.C. 612c), shall be used only for commodity program expenses as 
authorized therein, and other related operating expenses, except for: 
(1) transfers to the Department of Commerce as authorized by the Fish 
and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) transfers otherwise provided in 
this Act; and (3) not more than $20,705,000 for formulation and 
administration of marketing agreements and orders pursuant to the 
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 and the Agricultural Act 
of 1961.

                   payments to states and possessions

    For payments to departments of agriculture, bureaus and departments 
of markets, and similar agencies for marketing activities under section 
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,235,000.

        Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Grain Inspection, Packers and 
Stockyards Administration, $43,482,000:  Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

        limitation on inspection and weighing services expenses

    Not to exceed $57,500,000 (from fees collected) shall be obligated 
during the current fiscal year for inspection and weighing services:  
Provided, That if grain export activities require additional 
supervision and oversight, or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent with notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

             Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food Safety, $819,000.

                   Food Safety and Inspection Service

    For necessary expenses to carry out services authorized by the 
Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and 
the Egg Products Inspection Act, including not to exceed $50,000 for 
representation allowances and for expenses pursuant to section 8 of the 
Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,033,806,000; and in 
addition, $1,000,000 may be credited to this account from fees 
collected for the cost of laboratory accreditation as authorized by 
section 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 
1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f):  Provided, That funds provided for the Public 
Health Data Communication Infrastructure system shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That no fewer than 148 full-time 
equivalent positions shall be employed during fiscal year 2017 for 
purposes dedicated solely to inspections and enforcement related to the 
Humane Methods of Slaughter Act:  Provided further, That the Food 
Safety and Inspection Service shall continue implementation of section 
11016 of Public Law 110-246 as further clarified by the amendments made 
in section 12106 of Public Law 113-79:  Provided further, That this 
appropriation shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for 
the alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, but the cost 
of altering any one building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 10 
percent of the current replacement value of the building.

    Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural 
                                Services

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, $901,000.

                          Farm Service Agency

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Farm Service Agency, $1,210,412,000:  
Provided, That not more than 50 percent of the $129,546,000 made 
available under this heading for information technology related to farm 
program delivery, including the Modernize and Innovate the Delivery of 
Agricultural Systems and other farm program delivery systems, may be 
obligated until the Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a plan for expenditure that 
(1) identifies for each project/investment over $25,000 (a) the 
functional and performance capabilities to be delivered and the mission 
benefits to be realized, (b) the estimated lifecycle cost, including 
estimates for development as well as maintenance and operations, and 
(c) key milestones to be met; (2) demonstrates that each project/
investment is, (a) consistent with the Farm Service Agency Information 
Technology Roadmap, (b) being managed in accordance with applicable 
lifecycle management policies and guidance, and (c) subject to the 
applicable Department's capital planning and investment control 
requirements; and (3) has been reviewed by the Government 
Accountability Office and approved by the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That the agency shall 
submit a report by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 to 
the Committees on Appropriations and the Government Accountability 
Office, that identifies for each project/investment that is operational 
(a) current performance against key indicators of customer 
satisfaction, (b) current performance of service level agreements or 
other technical metrics, (c) current performance against a pre-
established cost baseline, (d) a detailed breakdown of current and 
planned spending on operational enhancements or upgrades, and (e) an 
assessment of whether the investment continues to meet business needs 
as intended as well as alternatives to the investment:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary is authorized to use the services, 
facilities, and authorities (but not the funds) of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation to make program payments for all programs administered by 
the Agency:  Provided further, That other funds made available to the 
Agency for authorized activities may be advanced to and merged with 
this account:  Provided further, That funds made available to county 
committees shall remain available until expended:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds available to the Farm Service Agency shall be 
used to close Farm Service Agency county offices:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds available to the Farm Service Agency shall be 
used to permanently relocate county based employees that would result 
in an office with two or fewer employees without prior notification and 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

                         state mediation grants

    For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the Agricultural Credit 
Act of 1987, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5101-5106), $3,904,000.

               grassroots source water protection program

    For necessary expenses to carry out wellhead or groundwater 
protection activities under section 1240O of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2), $6,500,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                        dairy indemnity program

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses involved in making indemnity payments to 
dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products under a dairy 
indemnity program, such sums as may be necessary, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That such program is carried out by the 
Secretary in the same manner as the dairy indemnity program described 
in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public Law 106-387, 114 
Stat. 1549A-12).

           agricultural credit insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed farm ownership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7 
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7 U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), 
Indian tribe land acquisition loans (25 U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans 
(7 U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed conservation loans (7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), 
and Indian highly fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be 
available from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, as 
follows: $2,000,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership loans and 
$1,500,000,000 for farm ownership direct loans; $1,432,430,000 for 
unsubsidized guaranteed operating loans and $1,460,047,000 for direct 
operating loans; emergency loans, $22,576,000; Indian tribe land 
acquisition loans, $20,000,000; guaranteed conservation loans, 
$150,000,000; Indian highly fractionated land loans, $10,000,000; and 
for boll weevil eradication program loans, $60,000,000:  Provided, That 
the Secretary shall deem the pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the 
purpose of boll weevil eradication program loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans and grants, including 
the cost of modifying loans as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows: farm operating loans, 
$62,198,000 for direct operating loans, $15,327,000 for unsubsidized 
guaranteed operating loans, emergency loans, $1,262,000, $2,550,000 for 
Indian highly fractionated land loans, and for individual development 
account grants, $1,500,000 to remain available until expended.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $317,068,000, of which 
$306,998,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.
    Funds appropriated by this Act to the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
Program Account for farm ownership, operating and conservation direct 
loans and guaranteed loans may be transferred among these programs:  
Provided, That the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.

                         Risk Management Agency

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Risk Management Agency, $75,750,000:  
Provided, That not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
1506(i).

                              CORPORATIONS

    The following corporations and agencies are hereby authorized to 
make expenditures, within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or agency and in accord with law, 
and to make contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 104 of the Government Corporation 
Control Act as may be necessary in carrying out the programs set forth 
in the budget for the current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided.

                Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund

    For payments as authorized by section 516 of the Federal Crop 
Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1516), such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended.

                   Commodity Credit Corporation Fund

                 reimbursement for net realized losses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary to 
reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for net realized losses 
sustained, but not previously reimbursed, pursuant to section 2 of the 
Act of August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a-11):  Provided, That of the 
funds available to the Commodity Credit Corporation under section 11 of 
the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for the 
conduct of its business with the Foreign Agricultural Service, up to 
$5,000,000 may be transferred to and used by the Foreign Agricultural 
Service for information resource management activities of the Foreign 
Agricultural Service that are not related to Commodity Credit 
Corporation business.

                       hazardous waste management

                        (limitation on expenses)

    For the current fiscal year, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall 
not expend more than $5,000,000 for site investigation and cleanup 
expenses, and operations and maintenance expenses to comply with the 
requirement of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and 
section 6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 
6961).

                                TITLE II

                         CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

  Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Natural Resources and Environment, $901,000.

                 Natural Resources Conservation Service

                        conservation operations

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the provisions of the Act 
of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a-f), including preparation of 
conservation plans and establishment of measures to conserve soil and 
water (including farm irrigation and land drainage and such special 
measures for soil and water management as may be necessary to prevent 
floods and the siltation of reservoirs and to control agricultural 
related pollutants); operation of conservation plant materials centers; 
classification and mapping of soil; dissemination of information; 
acquisition of lands, water, and interests therein for use in the plant 
materials program by donation, exchange, or purchase at a nominal cost 
not to exceed $100 pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 
428a); purchase and erection or alteration or improvement of permanent 
and temporary buildings; and operation and maintenance of aircraft, 
$864,474,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 
2250 for construction and improvement of buildings and public 
improvements at plant materials centers, except that the cost of 
alterations and improvements to other buildings and other public 
improvements shall not exceed $250,000:  Provided further, That when 
buildings or other structures are erected on non-Federal land, that the 
right to use such land is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a:  
Provided further, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading, $5,600,000, shall remain available until expended for the 
authorities under 16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 and 1007-1009 for authorized 
ongoing watershed projects with a primary purpose of providing water to 
rural communities.

               watershed and flood prevention operations

    For necessary expenses to carry out preventive measures, including 
but not limited to surveys and investigations, engineering operations, 
works of improvement, and changes in use of land, in accordance with 
the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1001-1005 
and 1007-1009) and in accordance with the provisions of laws relating 
to the activities of the Department, $150,000,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That of the amounts made available under 
this heading, $50,000,000 shall be allocated to projects and activities 
that can commence promptly following enactment; that address regional 
priorities for flood prevention, agricultural water management, 
inefficient irrigation systems, fish and wildlife habitat, or watershed 
protection; or that address authorized ongoing projects under the 
authorities of section 13 of the Flood Control Act of December 22, 1944 
(Public Law 78-534) with a primary purpose of watershed protection by 
preventing floodwater damage and stabilizing stream channels, 
tributaries, and banks to reduce erosion and sediment transport.

                               TITLE III

                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

          Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Rural Development, $896,000.

                           Rural Development

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses for carrying out the administration and 
implementation of programs in the Rural Development mission area, 
including activities with institutions concerning the development and 
operation of agricultural cooperatives; and for cooperative agreements; 
$226,283,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, funds appropriated under this heading may be used for advertising 
and promotional activities that support the Rural Development mission 
area:  Provided further, That any balances available from prior years 
for the Rural Utilities Service, Rural Housing Service, and the Rural 
Business--Cooperative Service salaries and expenses accounts shall be 
transferred to and merged with this appropriation.

                         Rural Housing Service

              rural housing insurance fund program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by title V of the Housing Act of 1949, 
to be available from funds in the rural housing insurance fund, as 
follows: $900,000,000 shall be for direct loans and $24,000,000,000 
shall be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; $26,278,000 for section 504 
housing repair loans; $40,000,000 for section 515 rental housing; 
$230,000,000 for section 538 guaranteed multi-family housing loans; 
$10,000,000 for credit sales of single family housing acquired 
property; $5,000,000 for section 523 self-help housing land development 
loans; and $5,000,000 for section 524 site development loans.
    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 loans, $60,930,000 shall be for 
direct loans; section 504 housing repair loans, $3,663,000; repair, 
rehabilitation, and new construction of section 515 rental housing, 
$11,840,000; section 523 self-help land development loans, $417,000; 
section 524 site development loans, $111,000:  Provided, That to 
support the loan program level for section 538 guaranteed loans made 
available under this heading the Secretary may charge or adjust any 
fees to cover the projected cost of such loan guarantees pursuant to 
the provisions of the Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.), 
and the interest on such loans may not be subsidized:  Provided 
further, That applicants in communities that have a current rural area 
waiver under section 541 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q) 
shall be treated as living in a rural area for purposes of section 502 
guaranteed loans provided under this heading:  Provided further, That 
of the amounts available under this paragraph for section 502 direct 
loans, no less than $5,000,000 shall be available for direct loans for 
individuals whose homes will be built pursuant to a program funded with 
a mutual and self-help housing grant authorized by section 523 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 until June 1, 2017:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall implement provisions to provide incentives to nonprofit 
organizations and public housing authorities to facilitate the 
acquisition of Rural Housing Service (RHS) multifamily housing 
properties by such nonprofit organizations and public housing 
authorities that commit to keep such properties in the RHS multifamily 
housing program for a period of time as determined by the Secretary. 
Incentives provided will include, but not be limited to, the following: 
allow such nonprofit entities and public housing authorities to earn a 
Return on Investment (ROI) on their own resources to include proceeds 
from low income housing tax credit syndication, own contributions, 
grants, and developer loans at favorable rates and terms, invested in a 
deal; and allow reimbursement of organizational costs associated with 
owner's oversight of asset referred to as ``Asset Management Fee'' 
(AMF) of up to $7,500 per property.
    In addition, for the cost of direct loans, grants, and contracts, 
as authorized by 42 U.S.C. 1484 and 1486, $15,388,000, to remain 
available until expended, for direct farm labor housing loans and 
domestic farm labor housing grants and contracts:  Provided, That any 
balances available for the Farm Labor Program Account shall be 
transferred to and merged with this account.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $417,854,000 shall be transferred 
to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries 
and Expenses''.

                       rental assistance program

    For rental assistance agreements entered into or renewed pursuant 
to the authority under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered into in 
lieu of debt forgiveness or payments for eligible households as 
authorized by section 502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, 
$1,405,033,000; and in addition such sums as may be necessary, as 
authorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred 
prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out the rental assistance program 
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act:  Provided, That rental assistance 
agreements entered into or renewed during the current fiscal year shall 
be funded for a one-year period:  Provided further, That any unexpended 
balances remaining at the end of such one-year agreements may be 
transferred and used for purposes of any debt reduction; maintenance, 
repair, or rehabilitation of any existing projects; preservation; and 
rental assistance activities authorized under title V of the Act:  
Provided further, That rental assistance provided under agreements 
entered into prior to fiscal year 2017 for a farm labor multi-family 
housing project financed under section 514 or 516 of the Act may not be 
recaptured for use in another project until such assistance has 
remained unused for a period of 12 consecutive months, if such project 
has a waiting list of tenants seeking such assistance or the project 
has rental assistance eligible tenants who are not receiving such 
assistance:  Provided further, That such recaptured rental assistance 
shall, to the extent practicable, be applied to another farm labor 
multi-family housing project financed under section 514 or 516 of the 
Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall provide to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress quarterly 
reports on the number of renewals approved, on the amount of rental 
assistance available, and the anticipated need for rental assistance 
for the remainder of the fiscal year:  Provided further, That except as 
provided in the third proviso under this heading and notwithstanding 
any other provision of the Act, the Secretary may recapture rental 
assistance provided under agreements entered into prior to fiscal year 
2017 for a project that the Secretary determines no longer needs rental 
assistance and use such recaptured funds for current needs.

          multi-family housing revitalization program account

    For the rural housing voucher program as authorized under section 
542 of the Housing Act of 1949, but notwithstanding subsection (b) of 
such section, and for additional costs to conduct a demonstration 
program for the preservation and revitalization of multi-family rental 
housing properties described in this paragraph, $40,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That of the funds made available 
under this heading, $18,000,000, shall be available for rural housing 
vouchers to any low-income household (including those not receiving 
rental assistance) residing in a property financed with a section 515 
loan which has been prepaid after September 30, 2005:  Provided 
further, That the amount of such voucher shall be the difference 
between comparable market rent for the section 515 unit and the tenant 
paid rent for such unit:  Provided further, That funds made available 
for such vouchers shall be subject to the availability of annual 
appropriations:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall, to the 
maximum extent practicable, administer such vouchers with current 
regulations and administrative guidance applicable to section 8 housing 
vouchers administered by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development:  Provided further, That if the Secretary determines 
that the amount made available for vouchers in this or any other Act is 
not needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use such funds for the 
demonstration program for the preservation and revitalization of multi-
family rental housing properties described in this paragraph:  Provided 
further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
$22,000,000 shall be available for a demonstration program for the 
preservation and revitalization of the sections 514, 515, and 516 
multi-family rental housing properties to restructure existing USDA 
multi-family housing loans, as the Secretary deems appropriate, 
expressly for the purposes of ensuring the project has sufficient 
resources to preserve the project for the purpose of providing safe and 
affordable housing for low-income residents and farm laborers including 
reducing or eliminating interest; deferring loan payments, 
subordinating, reducing or reamortizing loan debt; and other financial 
assistance including advances, payments and incentives (including the 
ability of owners to obtain reasonable returns on investment) required 
by the Secretary:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall as part 
of the preservation and revitalization agreement obtain a restrictive 
use agreement consistent with the terms of the restructuring:  Provided 
further, That if the Secretary determines that additional funds for 
vouchers described in this paragraph are needed, funds for the 
preservation and revitalization demonstration program may be used for 
such vouchers:  Provided further, That if Congress enacts legislation 
to permanently authorize a multi-family rental housing loan 
restructuring program similar to the demonstration program described 
herein, the Secretary may use funds made available for the 
demonstration program under this heading to carry out such legislation 
with the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That in addition to any other 
available funds, the Secretary may expend not more than $1,000,000 
total, from the program funds made available under this heading, for 
administrative expenses for activities funded under this heading.

                  mutual and self-help housing grants

    For grants and contracts pursuant to section 523(b)(1)(A) of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490c), $27,500,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                    rural housing assistance grants

    For grants for very low-income housing repair and rural housing 
preservation made by the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $32,239,000, to remain available until 
expended.

               rural community facilities program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For gross obligations for the principal amount of direct and 
guaranteed loans as authorized by section 306 and described in section 
381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 
$2,200,000,000 for direct loans and $156,250,000 for guaranteed loans.
    For the cost of guaranteed loans, including the cost of modifying 
loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, $3,500,000, to remain available until expended.
    For the cost of grants for rural community facilities programs as 
authorized by section 306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $38,778,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That $4,000,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be available for a Rural 
Community Development Initiative:  Provided further, That such funds 
shall be used solely to develop the capacity and ability of private, 
nonprofit community-based housing and community development 
organizations, low-income rural communities, and Federally Recognized 
Native American Tribes to undertake projects to improve housing, 
community facilities, community and economic development projects in 
rural areas:  Provided further, That such funds shall be made available 
to qualified private, nonprofit and public intermediary organizations 
proposing to carry out a program of financial and technical assistance: 
 Provided further, That such intermediary organizations shall provide 
matching funds from other sources, including Federal funds for related 
activities, in an amount not less than funds provided:  Provided 
further, That $5,778,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
shall be to provide grants for facilities in rural communities with 
extreme unemployment and severe economic depression (Public Law 106-
387), with up to 5 percent for administration and capacity building in 
the State rural development offices:  Provided further, That $4,000,000 
of the amount appropriated under this heading shall be available for 
community facilities grants to tribal colleges, as authorized by 
section 306(a)(19) of such Act:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H 
and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not 
applicable to the funds made available under this heading:  Provided 
further, That for the purposes of determining eligibility or level of 
program assistance the Secretary shall not include incarcerated prison 
populations.

                  Rural Business--Cooperative Service

                     rural business program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of loan guarantees and grants, for the rural business 
development programs authorized by section 310B and described in 
subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 310B of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act, $63,883,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated under this 
heading, not to exceed $500,000 shall be made available for one grant 
to a qualified national organization to provide technical assistance 
for rural transportation in order to promote economic development and 
$3,000,000 shall be for grants to the Delta Regional Authority (7 
U.S.C. 2009aa et seq.) for any Rural Community Advancement Program 
purpose as described in section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act, of which not more than 5 percent may be used for 
administrative expenses:  Provided further, That $4,000,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for business grants to 
benefit Federally Recognized Native American Tribes, including $250,000 
for a grant to a qualified national organization to provide technical 
assistance for rural transportation in order to promote economic 
development:  Provided further, That for purposes of determining 
eligibility or level of program assistance the Secretary shall not 
include incarcerated prison populations:  Provided further, That 
sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act are not applicable to funds made available under this heading.

              intermediary relending program fund account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), 
$18,889,000.
    For the cost of direct loans, $5,476,000, as authorized by the 
Intermediary Relending Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), of which 
$557,000 shall be available through June 30, 2017, for Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes; and of which $1,072,000 shall be 
available through June 30, 2017, for Mississippi Delta Region counties 
(as determined in accordance with Public Law 100-460):  Provided, That 
such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
loan programs, $4,468,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

            rural economic development loans program account

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For the principal amount of direct loans, as authorized under 
section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of 
promoting rural economic development and job creation projects, 
$33,077,000.
    Of the funds derived from interest on the cushion of credit 
payments, as authorized by section 313 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936, $165,000,000 shall not be obligated and $165,000,000 are 
rescinded.

                  rural cooperative development grants

    For rural cooperative development grants authorized under section 
310B(e) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1932), $22,300,000, of which $2,750,000 shall be for cooperative 
agreements for the appropriate technology transfer for rural areas 
program:  Provided, That not to exceed $3,000,000 shall be for grants 
for cooperative development centers, individual cooperatives, or groups 
of cooperatives that serve socially disadvantaged groups and a majority 
of the boards of directors or governing boards of which are comprised 
of individuals who are members of socially disadvantaged groups; and of 
which $10,750,000, to remain available until expended, shall be for 
value-added agricultural product market development grants, as 
authorized by section 231 of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 
2000 (7 U.S.C. 1632a).

                    rural energy for america program

    For the cost of a program of loan guarantees, under the same terms 
and conditions as authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Security and 
Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107), $352,000:  Provided, That 
the cost of loan guarantees, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974.

                        Rural Utilities Service

             rural water and waste disposal program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants for the 
rural water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid waste management 
programs authorized by sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B 
and described in sections 306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2) of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, $546,090,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be 
available for the rural utilities program described in section 
306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to exceed $993,000 shall be 
available for the rural utilities program described in section 306E of 
such Act:  Provided, That not to exceed $10,000,000 of the amount 
appropriated under this heading shall be for grants authorized by 
section 306A(i)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act 
in addition to funding authorized by section 306A(i)(1) of such Act:  
Provided further, That $66,500,000 of the amount appropriated under 
this heading shall be for loans and grants including water and waste 
disposal systems grants authorized by section 306C(a)(2)(B) and section 
306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, and Federally 
Recognized Native American Tribes authorized by 306C(a)(1):  Provided 
further, That funding provided for section 306D of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act may be provided to a consortium formed 
pursuant to section 325 of Public Law 105-83:  Provided further, That 
not more than 2 percent of the funding provided for section 306D of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act may be used by the State of 
Alaska for training and technical assistance programs and not more than 
2 percent of the funding provided for section 306D of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act may be used by a consortium formed 
pursuant to section 325 of Public Law 105-83 for training and technical 
assistance programs:  Provided further, That not to exceed $20,000,000 
of the amount appropriated under this heading shall be for technical 
assistance grants for rural water and waste systems pursuant to section 
306(a)(14) of such Act, unless the Secretary makes a determination of 
extreme need, of which $6,500,000 shall be made available for a grant 
to a qualified nonprofit multi-State regional technical assistance 
organization, with experience in working with small communities on 
water and waste water problems, the principal purpose of such grant 
shall be to assist rural communities with populations of 3,300 or less, 
in improving the planning, financing, development, operation, and 
management of water and waste water systems, and of which not less than 
$800,000 shall be for a qualified national Native American organization 
to provide technical assistance for rural water systems for tribal 
communities:  Provided further, That not to exceed $16,897,000 of the 
amount appropriated under this heading shall be for contracting with 
qualified national organizations for a circuit rider program to provide 
technical assistance for rural water systems:  Provided further, That 
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid waste management grants:  
Provided further, That $10,000,000 of the amount appropriated under 
this heading shall be transferred to, and merged with, the Rural 
Utilities Service, High Energy Cost Grants Account to provide grants 
authorized under section 19 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 918a):  Provided further, That any prior year balances for high-
energy cost grants authorized by section 19 of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a) shall be transferred to and 
merged with the Rural Utilities Service, High Energy Cost Grants 
Account:  Provided further, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the 
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act are not applicable to the 
funds made available under this heading.

   rural electrification and telecommunications loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    The principal amount of direct and guaranteed loans as authorized 
by sections 305 and 306 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 
U.S.C. 935 and 936) shall be made as follows: loans made pursuant to 
section 306 of that Act, rural electric, $5,500,000,000; guaranteed 
underwriting loans pursuant to section 313A, $750,000,000; 5 percent 
rural telecommunications loans, cost of money rural telecommunications 
loans, and for loans made pursuant to section 306 of that Act, rural 
telecommunications loans, $690,000,000:  Provided, That up to 
$2,000,000,000 shall be used for the construction, acquisition, or 
improvement of fossil-fueled electric generating plants (whether new or 
existing) that utilize carbon sequestration systems.
    For the cost of direct loans as authorized by section 305 of the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), including the cost of 
modifying loans, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget 
Act of 1974, cost of money rural telecommunications loans, $3,071,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $34,707,000, which shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Rural 
Development, Salaries and Expenses''.

         distance learning, telemedicine, and broadband program

    For the principal amount of broadband telecommunication loans, 
$27,043,000.
    For grants for telemedicine and distance learning services in rural 
areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $22,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That $3,000,000 shall be made 
available for grants authorized by 379G of the Consolidated Farm and 
Rural Development Act:  Provided further, That funding provided under 
this heading for grants under 379G of the Consolidated Farm and Rural 
Development Act may only be provided to entities that meet all of the 
eligibility criteria for a consortium as established by this section.
    For the cost of broadband loans, as authorized by section 601 of 
the Rural Electrification Act, $4,500,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That the cost of direct loans shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    In addition, $10,372,000, to remain available until expended, for a 
grant program to finance broadband transmission in rural areas eligible 
for Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program benefits authorized by 7 
U.S.C. 950aaa.

                                TITLE IV

                         DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS

    Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer 
                                Services

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Under Secretary for 
Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, $814,000.

                       Food and Nutrition Service

                        child nutrition programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Richard B. Russell National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21, and the 
Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except sections 
17 and 21; $23,201,733,000 to remain available through September 30, 
2018, of which such sums as are made available under section 
14222(b)(1) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-246), as amended by this Act, shall be merged with and 
available for the same time period and purposes as provided herein:  
Provided, That of the total amount available, $17,004,000 shall be 
available to carry out section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.):  Provided further, That of the total amount 
available, $30,000,000 shall be available to provide competitive grants 
to State agencies for subgrants to local educational agencies and 
schools to purchase the equipment needed to serve healthier meals, 
improve food safety, and to help support the establishment, 
maintenance, or expansion of the school breakfast program:  Provided 
further, That of the total amount available, $23,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended to carry out section 749(g) of the Agriculture 
Appropriations Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-80):  Provided further, That 
section 26(d) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769g(d)) is amended in the first sentence by striking ``2010 
through 2016'' and inserting ``2010 through 2017''.

special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
                                 (wic)

    For necessary expenses to carry out the special supplemental 
nutrition program as authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $6,350,000,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2018:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 
17(h)(10) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), 
not less than $60,000,000 shall be used for breastfeeding peer 
counselors and other related activities, and $13,600,000 shall be used 
for infrastructure:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided 
in this account shall be available for the purchase of infant formula 
except in accordance with the cost containment and competitive bidding 
requirements specified in section 17 of such Act:  Provided further, 
That none of the funds provided shall be available for activities that 
are not fully reimbursed by other Federal Government departments or 
agencies unless authorized by section 17 of such Act:  Provided 
further, That upon termination of a federally mandated vendor 
moratorium and subject to terms and conditions established by the 
Secretary, the Secretary may waive the requirement at 7 CFR 
246.12(g)(6) at the request of a State agency.

               supplemental nutrition assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out the Food and Nutrition Act of 
2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), $79,682,168,000, of which $3,000,000,000, 
to remain available through December 31, 2018, shall be placed in 
reserve for use only in such amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations:  Provided, That funds 
provided herein shall be expended in accordance with section 16 of the 
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008:  Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, $998,000 may be used to provide 
nutrition education services to State agencies and Federally Recognized 
Tribes participating in the Food Distribution Program on Indian 
Reservations:  Provided further, That this appropriation shall be 
subject to any work registration or workfare requirements as may be 
required by law:  Provided further, That funds made available for 
Employment and Training under this heading shall remain available 
through September 30, 2018:  Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading for section 28(d)(1), section 4(b), and 
section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 shall remain 
available through September 30, 2018:  Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading may be used to enter into contracts 
and employ staff to conduct studies, evaluations, or to conduct 
activities related to program integrity provided that such activities 
are authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.

                      commodity assistance program

    For necessary expenses to carry out disaster assistance and the 
Commodity Supplemental Food Program as authorized by section 4(a) of 
the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c 
note); the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983; special assistance 
for the nuclear affected islands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of 
the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-
188); and the Farmers' Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by 
section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, $313,139,000, to 
remain available through September 30, 2018:  Provided, That none of 
these funds shall be available to reimburse the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for commodities donated to the program:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective with funds 
made available in fiscal year 2017 to support the Seniors Farmers' 
Market Nutrition Program, as authorized by section 4402 of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, such funds shall remain 
available through September 30, 2018:  Provided further, That of the 
funds made available under section 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act 
of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use up to 10 percent for 
costs associated with the distribution of commodities.

                   nutrition programs administration

    For necessary administrative expenses of the Food and Nutrition 
Service for carrying out any domestic nutrition assistance program, 
$173,274,000:  Provided, That of the funds provided herein, $2,000,000 
shall be used for the purposes of section 4404 of Public Law 107-171, 
as amended by section 4401 of Public Law 110-246.

                                TITLE V

                FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS

                      Foreign Agricultural Service

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
including not to exceed $250,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved August 3, 1956 (7 
U.S.C. 1766), $196,571,000, of which no more than 6 percent shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018, for overseas operations to 
include the payment of locally employed staff:  Provided, That the 
Service may utilize advances of funds, or reimburse this appropriation 
for expenditures made on behalf of Federal agencies, public and private 
organizations and institutions under agreements executed pursuant to 
the agricultural food production assistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) 
and the foreign assistance programs of the United States Agency for 
International Development:  Provided further, That funds made available 
for middle-income country training programs, funds made available for 
the Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology 
Fellowship program, and up to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural 
Service appropriation solely for the purpose of offsetting fluctuations 
in international currency exchange rates, subject to documentation by 
the Foreign Agricultural Service, shall remain available until 
expended.

  food for peace title i direct credit and food for progress program 
                                account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the credit program of 
title I, Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480) and the Food for 
Progress Act of 1985, $149,000, shall be transferred to and merged with 
the appropriation for ``Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                     food for peace title ii grants

    For expenses during the current fiscal year, not otherwise 
recoverable, and unrecovered prior years' costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Public Law 83-480), for 
commodities supplied in connection with dispositions abroad under title 
II of said Act, $1,600,000,000, to remain available until expended.

  mcgovern-dole international food for education and child nutrition 
                             program grants

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 3107 
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-
1), $201,626,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized to provide the services, 
facilities, and authorities for the purpose of implementing such 
section, subject to reimbursement from amounts provided herein:  
Provided further, That of the amount made available under this heading, 
$10,000,000, shall remain available until expended for necessary 
expenses to carry out the provisions of section 3207 of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 1726c).

 commodity credit corporation export (loans) credit guarantee program 
                                account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the Commodity Credit 
Corporation's Export Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, 
$8,537,000; to cover common overhead expenses as permitted by section 
11 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act and in conformity 
with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, of which $6,074,000 shall 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Foreign 
Agricultural Service, Salaries and Expenses'', and of which $2,463,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation for ``Farm 
Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses''.

                                TITLE VI

           RELATED AGENCIES AND FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

                Department of Health and Human Services

                      food and drug administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Food and Drug Administration, 
including hire and purchase of passenger motor vehicles; for payment of 
space rental and related costs pursuant to Public Law 92-313 for 
programs and activities of the Food and Drug Administration which are 
included in this Act; for rental of special purpose space in the 
District of Columbia or elsewhere; for miscellaneous and emergency 
expenses of enforcement activities, authorized and approved by the 
Secretary and to be accounted for solely on the Secretary's 
certificate, not to exceed $25,000; and notwithstanding section 521 of 
Public Law 107-188; $4,784,998,000:  Provided, That of the amount 
provided under this heading, $865,653,000 shall be derived from 
prescription drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$144,859,000 shall be derived from medical device user fees authorized 
by 21 U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended; $324,085,000 shall be derived from human 
generic drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-42, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$22,079,000 shall be derived from biosimilar biological product user 
fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-52, and shall be credited to this 
account and remain available until expended; $22,977,000 shall be 
derived from animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-12, and 
shall be credited to this account and remain available until expended; 
$10,367,000 shall be derived from animal generic drug user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-21, and shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended; $635,000,000 shall be derived from 
tobacco product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 387s, and shall be 
credited to this account and remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That in addition to and notwithstanding any other provision 
under this heading, amounts collected for prescription drug user fees, 
medical device user fees, human generic drug user fees, biosimilar 
biological product user fees, animal drug user fees, and animal generic 
drug user fees that exceed the respective fiscal year 2017 limitations 
are appropriated and shall be credited to this account and remain 
available until expended:  Provided further, That fees derived from 
prescription drug, medical device, human generic drug, biosimilar 
biological product, animal drug, and animal generic drug assessments 
for fiscal year 2017, including any such fees collected prior to fiscal 
year 2017 but credited for fiscal year 2017, shall be subject to the 
fiscal year 2017 limitations:  Provided further, That the Secretary may 
accept payment during fiscal year 2017 of user fees specified under 
this heading and authorized for fiscal year 2018, prior to the due date 
for such fees, and that amounts of such fees assessed for fiscal year 
2018 for which the Secretary accepts payment in fiscal year 2017 shall 
not be included in amounts under this heading:  Provided further, That 
none of these funds shall be used to develop, establish, or operate any 
program of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701:  Provided further, 
That of the total amount appropriated: (1) $1,027,103,000 shall be for 
the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition and related field 
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (2) $1,407,781,000 
shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and related 
field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (3) $359,989,000 
shall be for the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and for 
related field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (4) 
$191,257,000 shall be for the Center for Veterinary Medicine and for 
related field activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (5) 
$442,232,000 shall be for the Center for Devices and Radiological 
Health and for related field activities in the Office of Regulatory 
Affairs; (6) $63,331,000 shall be for the National Center for 
Toxicological Research; (7) $596,338,000 shall be for the Center for 
Tobacco Products and for related field activities in the Office of 
Regulatory Affairs; (8) not to exceed $168,552,000 shall be for Rent 
and Related activities, of which $47,461,000 is for White Oak 
Consolidation, other than the amounts paid to the General Services 
Administration for rent; (9) not to exceed $235,277,000 shall be for 
payments to the General Services Administration for rent; and (10) 
$293,138,000 shall be for other activities, including the Office of the 
Commissioner of Food and Drugs, the Office of Foods and Veterinary 
Medicine, the Office of Medical and Tobacco Products, the Office of 
Global and Regulatory Policy, the Office of Operations, the Office of 
the Chief Scientist, and central services for these offices:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed $25,000 of this amount shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, as determined by the Commissioner:  Provided further, That any 
transfer of funds pursuant to section 770(n) of the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379dd(n)) shall only be from amounts made 
available under this heading for other activities:  Provided further, 
That of the amounts that are made available under this heading for 
``other activities'', and that are not derived from user fees, 
$1,500,000 shall be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ``Department of Health and Human Services--Office of Inspector 
General'' for oversight of the programs and operations of the Food and 
Drug Administration and shall be in addition to funds otherwise made 
available for oversight of the Food and Drug Administration:  Provided 
further, That funds may be transferred from one specified activity to 
another with the prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress.
    In addition, mammography user fees authorized by 42 U.S.C. 263b, 
export certification user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381, priority 
review user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360n and 360ff, food and feed 
recall fees, food reinspection fees, and voluntary qualified importer 
program fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-31, outsourcing facility fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-62, prescription drug wholesale 
distributor licensing and inspection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 
353(e)(3), third-party logistics provider licensing and inspection fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360eee-3(c)(1), and third-party auditor fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), shall be credited to this account, 
to remain available until expended.

                        buildings and facilities

    For plans, construction, repair, improvement, extension, 
alteration, and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of or used by 
the Food and Drug Administration, where not otherwise provided, 
$11,788,000, to remain available until expended.

                           INDEPENDENT AGENCY

                       Farm Credit Administration

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    Not to exceed $65,600,000 (from assessments collected from farm 
credit institutions, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage 
Corporation) shall be obligated during the current fiscal year for 
administrative expenses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249:  Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses associated with 
receiverships:  Provided further, That the agency may exceed this 
limitation by up to 10 percent with notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                               TITLE VII

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

             (including rescissions and transfers of funds)

    Sec. 701.  Within the unit limit of cost fixed by law, 
appropriations and authorizations made for the Department of 
Agriculture for the current fiscal year under this Act shall be 
available for the purchase, in addition to those specifically provided 
for, of not to exceed 52 passenger motor vehicles of which 52 shall be 
for replacement only, and for the hire of such vehicles:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding this section, the only purchase of new passenger 
vehicles shall be for those determined by the Secretary to be necessary 
for transportation safety, to reduce operational costs, and for the 
protection of life, property, and public safety.
    Sec. 702.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may transfer unobligated balances of 
discretionary funds appropriated by this Act or any other available 
unobligated discretionary balances that are remaining available of the 
Department of Agriculture to the Working Capital Fund for the 
acquisition of plant and capital equipment necessary for the delivery 
of financial, administrative, and information technology services of 
primary benefit to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture, such 
transferred funds to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
none of the funds made available by this Act or any other Act shall be 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund without the prior approval of 
the agency administrator:  Provided further, That none of the funds 
transferred to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to this section shall 
be available for obligation without written notification to and the 
prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by 
this Act or made available to the Department's Working Capital Fund 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure to make any changes to 
the Department's National Finance Center without written notification 
to and prior approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress as required by section 717 of this Act:  Provided 
further, That of annual income amounts in the Working Capital Fund of 
the Department of Agriculture allocated for the National Finance 
Center, the Secretary may reserve not more than 4 percent for the 
replacement or acquisition of capital equipment, including equipment 
for the improvement and implementation of a financial management plan, 
information technology, and other systems of the National Finance 
Center or to pay any unforeseen, extraordinary cost of the National 
Finance Center:  Provided further, That none of the amounts reserved 
shall be available for obligation unless the Secretary submits written 
notification of the obligation to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress:  Provided further, That the limitation on the 
obligation of funds pending notification to Congressional Committees 
shall not apply to any obligation that, as determined by the Secretary, 
is necessary to respond to a declared state of emergency that 
significantly impacts the operations of the National Finance Center; or 
to evacuate employees of the National Finance Center to a safe haven to 
continue operations of the National Finance Center.
    Sec. 703.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 704.  No funds appropriated by this Act may be used to pay 
negotiated indirect cost rates on cooperative agreements or similar 
arrangements between the United States Department of Agriculture and 
nonprofit institutions in excess of 10 percent of the total direct cost 
of the agreement when the purpose of such cooperative arrangements is 
to carry out programs of mutual interest between the two parties. This 
does not preclude appropriate payment of indirect costs on grants and 
contracts with such institutions when such indirect costs are computed 
on a similar basis for all agencies for which appropriations are 
provided in this Act.
    Sec. 705.  Appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the 
cost of direct and guaranteed loans made available in the current 
fiscal year shall remain available until expended to disburse 
obligations made in the current fiscal year for the following accounts: 
the Rural Development Loan Fund program account, the Rural 
Electrification and Telecommunication Loans program account, and the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund program account.
    Sec. 706.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Agriculture by this Act may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, as determined by the Office 
of the Chief Information Officer, without the approval of the Chief 
Information Officer and the concurrence of the Executive Information 
Technology Investment Review Board:  Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act may be transferred to the Office of the 
Chief Information Officer without written notification to and the prior 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding section 11319 of 
title 40, United States Code, none of the funds available to the 
Department of Agriculture for information technology shall be obligated 
for projects, contracts, or other agreements over $25,000 prior to 
receipt of written approval by the Chief Information Officer:  Provided 
further, That the Chief Information Officer may authorize an agency to 
obligate funds without written approval from the Chief Information 
Officer for projects, contracts, or other agreements up to $250,000 
based upon the performance of an agency measured against the 
performance plan requirements described in the explanatory statement 
accompanying Public Law 113-235.
    Sec. 707.  Funds made available under section 524(b) of the Federal 
Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current fiscal year shall 
remain available until expended to disburse obligations made in the 
current fiscal year.
    Sec. 708.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any former 
RUS borrower that has repaid or prepaid an insured, direct or 
guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, or any 
not-for-profit utility that is eligible to receive an insured or direct 
loan under such Act, shall be eligible for assistance under section 
313(b)(2)(B) of such Act in the same manner as a borrower under such 
Act.
    Sec. 709.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not 
more than $20,000,000 in unobligated balances from appropriations made 
available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Farm Service 
Agency shall remain available through September 30, 2018, for 
information technology expenses:  Provided, That except as otherwise 
specifically provided by law, unobligated balances from appropriations 
made available for salaries and expenses in this Act for the Rural 
Development mission area shall remain available through September 30, 
2018, for information technology expenses.
    Sec. 710.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for first-class travel by the 
employees of agencies funded by this Act in contravention of sections 
301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 711.  In the case of each program established or amended by 
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79), other than by title I 
or subtitle A of title III of such Act, or programs for which 
indefinite amounts were provided in that Act, that is authorized or 
required to be carried out using funds of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation--
            (1) such funds shall be available for salaries and related 
        administrative expenses, including technical assistance, 
        associated with the implementation of the program, without 
        regard to the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in section 11 of the Commodity Credit 
        Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
            (2) the use of such funds for such purpose shall not be 
        considered to be a fund transfer or allotment for purposes of 
        applying the limitation on the total amount of allotments and 
        fund transfers contained in such section.
    Sec. 712.  Of the funds made available by this Act, not more than 
$2,000,000 shall be used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, commissions, and task 
forces of the Department of Agriculture, except for panels used to 
comply with negotiated rule makings and panels used to evaluate 
competitively awarded grants.
    Sec. 713.  None of the funds in this Act shall be available to pay 
indirect costs charged against any agricultural research, education, or 
extension grant awards issued by the National Institute of Food and 
Agriculture that exceed 30 percent of total Federal funds provided 
under each award:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 1462 of the 
National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 
1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds provided by this Act for grants awarded 
competitively by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture shall 
be available to pay full allowable indirect costs for each grant 
awarded under section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
    Sec. 714.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out the following:
            (1) The Watershed Rehabilitation program authorized by 
        section 14(h)(1) of the Watershed and Flood Protection Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1012(h)(1));
            (2) The Environmental Quality Incentives Program as 
        authorized by sections 1240-1240H of the Food Security Act of 
        1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-3839aa-8) in excess of $1,347,000,000:  
        Provided, That this limitation shall apply only to funds 
        provided by section 1241(a)(5)(D) of the Food Security Act of 
        1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841(a)(5)(D)); and
            (3) The Biomass Crop Assistance Program authorized by 
        section 9011 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 
        2002 (7 U.S.C. 8111) in excess of $3,000,000 in new 
        obligational authority.
    Sec. 715.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out a program under subsection 
(b)(2)(A)(ix) of section 14222 of Public Law 110-246 in excess of 
$880,000,000, as follows: Child Nutrition Programs Entitlement 
Commodities--$465,000,000; State Option Contracts--$5,000,000; Removal 
of Defective Commodities--$2,500,000:  Provided, That none of the funds 
made available in this Act or any other Act shall be used for salaries 
and expenses to carry out in this fiscal year section 19(i)(1)(E) of 
the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended, except in 
an amount that excludes the transfer of $125,000,000 of the funds to be 
transferred under subsection (c) of section 14222 of Public Law 110-
246, until October 1, 2017:  Provided further, That $125,000,000 made 
available on October 1, 2017, to carry out section 19(i)(1)(E) of the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended, shall be 
excluded from the limitation described in subsection (b)(2)(A)(x) of 
section 14222 of Public Law 110-246:  Provided further, That none of 
the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other 
Act shall be used to pay the salaries or expenses of any employee of 
the Department of Agriculture or officer of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation to carry out clause 3 of section 32 of the Agricultural 
Adjustment Act of 1935 (Public Law 74-320, 7 U.S.C. 612c, as amended), 
or for any surplus removal activities or price support activities under 
section 5 of the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act:  Provided 
further, That the available unobligated balances under (b)(2)(A)(ix) of 
section 14222 of Public Law 110-246 in excess of the limitation set 
forth in this section, except for the amounts to be transferred 
pursuant to the first proviso, are hereby permanently rescinded.
    Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
shall be used to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel who prepare 
or submit appropriations language as part of the President's budget 
submission to the Congress for programs under the jurisdiction of the 
Appropriations Subcommittees on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies that assumes revenues or 
reflects a reduction from the previous year due to user fees proposals 
that have not been enacted into law prior to the submission of the 
budget unless such budget submission identifies which additional 
spending reductions should occur in the event the user fees proposals 
are not enacted prior to the date of the convening of a committee of 
conference for the fiscal year 2018 appropriations Act.
    Sec. 717. (a) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided 
by previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal 
year, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the 
collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall 
be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming, 
transfer of funds, or reimbursements as authorized by the Economy Act, 
or in the case of the Department of Agriculture, through use of the 
authority provided by section 702(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public Law 89-106 
(7 U.S.C. 2263), that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or
            (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services (as the case may be) notifies in writing and receives 
approval from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress at least 30 days in advance of the reprogramming of such funds 
or the use of such authority.
    (b) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for obligation or expenditure for activities, programs, or projects 
through a reprogramming or use of the authorities referred to in 
subsection (a) involving funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, 
whichever is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects, or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
        activities, or projects as approved by Congress; unless the 
        Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services (as the case may be) notifies in writing and receives 
        approval from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
        of Congress at least 30 days in advance of the reprogramming or 
        transfer of such funds or the use of such authority.
    (c) The Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services shall notify in writing and receive approval from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress before 
implementing any program or activity not carried out during the 
previous fiscal year unless the program or activity is funded by this 
Act or specifically funded by any other Act.
    (d) None of the funds provided by this Act, or provided by previous 
Appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure in the current fiscal year, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available 
for--
            (1) modifying major capital investments funding levels, 
        including information technology systems, that involves 
        increasing or decreasing funds in the current fiscal year for 
        the individual investment in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent 
        of the total cost, whichever is less;
            (2) realigning or reorganizing new, current, or vacant 
        positions or agency activities or functions to establish a 
        center, office, branch, or similar entity with five or more 
        personnel; or
            (3) carrying out activities or functions that were not 
        described in the budget request; unless the agencies funded by 
        this Act notify, in writing, the Committees on Appropriations 
        of both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in advance of using 
        the funds for these purposes.
    (e) As described in this section, no funds may be used for any 
activities unless the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services receives from the Committee on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress written or electronic mail confirmation of 
receipt of the notification as required in this section.
    Sec. 718.  Notwithstanding section 310B(g)(5) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)(5)), the Secretary may 
assess a one-time fee for any guaranteed business and industry loan in 
an amount that does not exceed 3 percent of the guaranteed principal 
portion of the loan.
    Sec. 719.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available to the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug 
Administration, or the Farm Credit Administration shall be used to 
transmit or otherwise make available reports, questions, or responses 
to questions that are a result of information requested for the 
appropriations hearing process to any non-Department of Agriculture, 
non-Department of Health and Human Services, or non-Farm Credit 
Administration employee.
    Sec. 720.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, may be used by an executive branch agency 
to produce any prepackaged news story intended for broadcast or 
distribution in the United States unless the story includes a clear 
notification within the text or audio of the prepackaged news story 
that the prepackaged news story was prepared or funded by that 
executive branch agency.
    Sec. 721.  No employee of the Department of Agriculture may be 
detailed or assigned from an agency or office funded by this Act or any 
other Act to any other agency or office of the Department for more than 
60 days in a fiscal year unless the individual's employing agency or 
office is fully reimbursed by the receiving agency or office for the 
salary and expenses of the employee for the period of assignment.
    Sec. 722.  None of the funds made available by this Act or any 
other Act may be used--
            (1) in contravention of section 7606 of the Agricultural 
        Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940); or
            (2) to prohibit the transportation, processing, sale, or 
        use of industrial hemp that is grown or cultivated in 
        accordance with subsection section 7606 of the Agricultural Act 
        of 2014, within or outside the State in which the industrial 
        hemp is grown or cultivated.
    Sec. 723.  Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Commissioner of the Food 
and Drug Administration, and the Chairman of the Farm Credit 
Administration shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress a detailed spending plan by program, project, and 
activity for all the funds made available under this Act including 
appropriated user fees, as defined in the report accompanying this Act.
    Sec. 724.  There is hereby appropriated $1,996,000 to carry out 
section 1621 of Public Law 110-246.
    Sec. 725.  The Secretary shall establish an intermediary loan 
packaging program based on the pilot program in effect for fiscal year 
2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502 single family direct 
loans. The Secretary shall enter into agreements with current 
intermediary organizations and with additional qualified intermediary 
organizations. The Secretary shall work with these organizations to 
increase effectiveness of the section 502 single family direct loan 
program in rural communities and shall set aside and make available 
from the national reserve section 502 loans an amount necessary to 
support the work of such intermediaries and provide a priority for 
review of such loans.
    Sec. 726.  For loans and loan guarantees that do not require budget 
authority and the program level has been established in this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture may increase the program level for such loans 
and loan guarantees by not more than 25 percent:  Provided, That prior 
to the Secretary implementing such an increase, the Secretary notifies, 
in writing, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
at least 15 days in advance.
    Sec. 727.  None of the credit card refunds or rebates transferred 
to the Working Capital Fund pursuant to section 729 of the Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2002 (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public Law 107-76) shall be 
available for obligation without written notification to, and the prior 
approval of, the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress:  Provided, That the refunds or rebates so transferred shall 
be available for obligation only for the acquisition of plant and 
capital equipment necessary for the delivery of financial, 
administrative, and information technology services of primary benefit 
to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture.
    Sec. 728.  The Secretary shall set aside for Rural Economic Area 
Partnership (REAP) Zones, until August 15, 2017, an amount of funds 
made available in title III under the headings of Rural Housing 
Insurance Fund Program Account, Mutual and Self-Help Housing Grants, 
Rural Housing Assistance Grants, Rural Community Facilities Program 
Account, Rural Business Program Account, Rural Development Loan Fund 
Program Account, and Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program Account, 
equal to the amount obligated in REAP Zones with respect to funds 
provided under such headings in the most recent fiscal year any such 
funds were obligated under such headings for REAP Zones.
    Sec. 729.  In response to an eligible community where the drinking 
water supplies are inadequate due to a natural disaster, as determined 
by the Secretary, including drought or severe weather, the Secretary 
may provide potable water through the Emergency Community Water 
Assistance Grant Program for an additional period of time not to exceed 
120 days beyond the established period provided under the Program in 
order to protect public health.
    Sec. 730.  Funds provided by this or any prior Appropriations Act 
for the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) 
shall be made available without regard to section 7128 of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 3371 note), under the matching 
requirements in laws in effect on the date before the date of enactment 
of such section:  Provided, That the requirements of 7 U.S.C. 
450i(b)(9) shall continue to apply.
    Sec. 731.  There is hereby appropriated $8,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to carry out section 6407 of the Farm 
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107a).
    Sec. 732.  There is hereby appropriated $600,000 for the purposes 
of section 727 of division A of Public Law 112-55.
    Sec. 733.  In carrying out subsection (h) of section 502 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall have the same authority with respect to loans guaranteed under 
such section and eligible lenders for such loans as the Secretary has 
under subsections (h) and (j) of section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1490p-2) with respect to loans guaranteed under such section 538 and 
eligible lenders for such loans.
    Sec. 734.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to propose, promulgate, or implement any rule, or take any other action 
with respect to, allowing or requiring information intended for a 
prescribing health care professional, in the case of a drug or 
biological product subject to section 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be distributed to such 
professional electronically (in lieu of in paper form) unless and until 
a Federal law is enacted to allow or require such distribution.
    Sec. 735.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the final rule entitled ``Food 
Labeling; Nutrition Labeling of Standard Menu Items in Restaurants and 
Similar Retail Food Establishments'' published by the Food and Drug 
Administration in the Federal Register on December 1, 2014 (79 Fed. 
Reg. 71156 et seq.) until April 29, 2017.
    Sec. 736.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to notify a sponsor or otherwise acknowledge receipt of a submission 
for an exemption for investigational use of a drug or biological 
product under section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or section 351(a)(3) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(a)(3)) in research in which a human embryo 
is intentionally created or modified to include a heritable genetic 
modification. Any such submission shall be deemed to have not been 
received by the Secretary, and the exemption may not go into effect.
    Sec. 737.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to implement or enforce any provision of the FDA Food 
Safety Modernization Act (Public Law 111-353), including the amendments 
made thereby, with respect to the regulation of the distribution, sale, 
or receipt of dried spent grain byproducts of the alcoholic beverage 
production process, irrespective of whether such byproducts are solely 
intended for use as animal feed.
    Sec. 738.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available by this 
Act and notwithstanding the last sentence of 16 U.S.C. 1310, there is 
appropriated $4,000,000, to remain available until expended, to 
implement non-renewable agreements on eligible lands, including flooded 
agricultural lands, as determined by the Secretary, under the Water 
Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301-1311).
    Sec. 739.  The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary's 
designees are hereby granted the same access to information and subject 
to the same requirements applicable to the Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development as provided in section 453(j) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 653(j)) and section 6103(l)(7)(D)(ix) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 6103(l)(7)(D)(ix)) to verify the income 
for individuals participating in sections 502, 504, 521, and 542 of the 
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472, 1474, 1490a, and 1490r).
    Sec. 740.  No partially hydrogenated oils as defined in the order 
published by the Food and Drug Administration in the Federal Register 
on June 17, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 34650 et seq.) shall be deemed unsafe 
within the meaning of section 409(a) and no food that is introduced or 
delivered for introduction into interstate commerce that bears or 
contains a partially hydrogenated oil shall be deemed adulterated under 
sections 402(a)(1) or 402(a)(2)(C)(i) by virtue of bearing or 
containing a partially hydrogenated oil until the compliance date as 
specified in such order (June 18, 2018).
    Sec. 741.  The Secretary may charge a fee for lenders to access 
Department loan guarantee systems in connection with such lenders' 
participation in loan guarantee programs of the Rural Housing Service:  
Provided, That the funds collected from such fees shall be made 
available to the Secretary without further appropriation and such funds 
shall be deposited into the Rural Development Salaries and Expense 
Account and shall remain available until expended for obligation and 
expenditure by the Secretary for administrative expenses of the Rural 
Housing Service Loan Guarantee Program in addition to other available 
funds:  Provided further, That such fees collected shall not exceed $50 
per loan.
    Sec. 742.  The following unobligated balances identified by the 
following Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbols are hereby rescinded: 
12X1951, $620,161.89; 12X1953, $2,302,342.75; 12X1902, $352,323.31; 
12X1900, $16,452.44; and 12X1232, $529,310.95:  Provided, That no 
amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency or disaster relief requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 743.  The unobligated balances resulting from offsetting 
collections identified by Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbols 12X1951, 
12X2002, 12X2006, 12X1902, 12X1900, 12X1232, and 12X1980, respectively, 
are hereby rescinded:  Provided, That no amounts may be rescinded from 
amounts that were designated by the Congress as an emergency or 
disaster relief requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the 
budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985.
    Sec. 744.  Beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, in 
fiscal year 2017 and each fiscal year hereafter, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, a household certified to participate in the 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program is required to report in a 
manner prescribed by the Secretary if the household no longer resides 
in the State in which it is certified.
    Sec. 745.  Of the unobligated balances from amounts made available 
in fiscal year 2016 for the supplemental nutrition program as 
authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
1786), $200,000,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 746.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, for the cost of loans and grants that is 
consistent with section 4206 of the Agricultural Act of 2014, for 
necessary expenses of the Secretary to support projects that provide 
access to healthy food in underserved areas, to create and preserve 
quality jobs, and to revitalize low-income communities.
    Sec. 747. (a) Of the unobligated balances from amounts made 
available in fiscal year 2015 for the Comprehensive Loan Accounting 
System under the heading ``Rural Development Salaries and Expenses'', 
$15,000,000 are hereby rescinded.
    (b) For an additional amount for fiscal year 2016 for ``Rural 
Development Salaries and Expenses'', $15,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017, is provided for Information Technology 
modernization activities.
    (c) This section shall become effective immediately upon enactment 
of this Act.
    Sec. 748. (a) Of the unobligated balances from amounts made 
available in fiscal year 2016 for the Comprehensive Loan Accounting 
System under the heading ``Rural Development, Salaries and Expenses'', 
$19,500,000 are hereby rescinded.
    (b) For an additional amount for ``Rural Development, Salaries and 
Expenses'', $19,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, 
is provided for Information Technology modernization activities.
    Sec. 749.  There is hereby appropriated $1,000,000 for a pilot 
program for the Secretary to provide grants to qualified non-profit 
organizations and public housing authorities to provide technical 
assistance, including financial and legal services, to RHS multi-family 
housing borrowers to facilitate the acquisition of RHS multi-family 
housing properties in areas where the Secretary determines a risk of 
loss of affordable housing, by non-profit housing organizations and 
public housing authorities as authorized by law that commit to keep 
such properties in the RHS multi-family housing program for a period of 
time as determined by the Secretary.
    Sec. 750.  Notwithstanding any language to the contrary, state 
agricultural experiment stations and state cooperative extension 
services are eligible entities under 7 U.S.C. 3125a-1(a).
    Sec. 751. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary'') shall carry out a pilot program during 
fiscal year 2017 with respect to the 2016 crop year for county-level 
agriculture risk coverage payments under section 1117(b)(1) of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017(b)(1)), that provides all or 
some of the State Farm Service Agency offices in each State the 
opportunity to provide agricultural producers in the State a 
supplemental payment described in subsection (c) based on the alternate 
calculation method described in subsection (b) for 1 or more counties 
in a State if the office for that State determines that the alternate 
calculation method is necessary to ensure that, to the maximum extent 
practicable, there are not significant yield calculation disparities 
between comparable counties in the State.
    (b) The alternate calculation method referred to in subsection (a) 
is a method of calculating the actual yield for the 2016 crop year for 
county-level agriculture risk coverage payments under section 
1117(b)(1) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017(b)(1)), under 
which--
            (1) county data of the National Agricultural Statistics 
        Service (referred to in this section as ``NASS data'') is used 
        for the calculations;
            (2) if there is insufficient NASS data for a county (as 
        determined under standards of the Secretary in effect as of the 
        date of enactment of this Act) or the available NASS data 
        produces a substantially disparate result, the calculation of 
        the county yield is determined using comparable contiguous 
        county NASS data as determined by the Farm Service Agency 
        office in the applicable State; and
            (3) if there is insufficient NASS data for a comparable 
        contiguous county (as determined under standards of the 
        Secretary in effect as of the date of enactment of this Act), 
        the calculation of the county yield is determined using 
        reliable yield data from other sources, such as Risk Management 
        Agency data, National Agricultural Statistics Service district 
        data, National Agricultural Statistics Service State yield 
        data, or other data as determined by the Farm Service Agency 
        office in the applicable State.
    (c)(1) A supplemental payment made under the pilot program 
established under this section may be made to an agricultural producer 
who is subject to the alternate calculation method described in 
subsection (b) if that agricultural producer would otherwise receive a 
county-level agriculture risk coverage payment for the 2016 crop year 
in an amount that is less than the payment that the agricultural 
producer would receive under the alternate calculation method.
            (2) The amount of a supplemental payment to an agricultural 
        producer under this section may not exceed the difference 
        between--
                    (A) the payment that the agricultural producer 
                would have received without the alternate calculation 
                method described in subsection (b); and
                    (B) the payment that the agricultural producer 
                would receive using the alternate calculation method.
    (d)(1) There is appropriated to the Secretary, out of funds of the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000 to carry out the pilot 
program described in this section.
            (2) Of the funds appropriated, the Secretary shall use not 
        more than $5,000,000 to carry out the pilot program described 
        in this section.
    (e)(1) To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall 
select States to participate in the pilot program under this section so 
the cost of the pilot program equals the amount provided under 
subsection (d).
            (2) To the extent that the cost of the pilot program 
        exceeds the amount made available, the Secretary shall reduce 
        all payments under the pilot program on a pro rata basis.
    (f) Nothing in this section affects the calculation of actual yield 
for purposes of county-level agriculture risk coverage payments under 
section 1117(b)(1) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 
9017(b)(1)) other than payments made in accordance with the pilot 
program under this section.
    (g) A calculation of actual yield made using the alternate 
calculation method described in subsection (b) shall not be used as a 
basis for any agriculture risk coverage payment determinations under 
section 1117 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017) other than 
for purposes of the pilot program under this section.
    Sec. 752.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be used 
to write, prepare, or publish an interim final rule or final rule in 
furtherance of, or otherwise to implement or enforce, any portion of 
the proposed rule entitled ``Enhancing Retailer Standards in the 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)'' (81 Fed. Reg. 8015 
(February 17, 2016)), that would--
     (a) alter the definition of a retail food store by establishing a 
threshold for the amount of an entity's total food sales that must be 
for items that are not cooked or heated on-site before or after 
purchase;
    (b) establish a minimum number of stocking units required for each 
food item in a staple food category; or
    (c) alter the definition of a staple food by--
            (1) changing the manner in which commercially processed 
        foods and prepared mixtures with multiple ingredients are 
        counted; or
            (2) expanding the scope of accessory food items beyond the 
        list of food items described in 7 U.S.C. 2012(q)(2).
    Sec. 753.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for purposes 
of applying the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et 
seq.), the acceptable market name of Lithodes aequispinus is ``golden 
king crab.''
    Sec. 754. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
purposes of applying the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 
U.S.C. 301 et seq.), the acceptable market name of any salmon that is 
genetically engineered shall include the words ``genetically 
engineered'' or ``GE'' prior to the existing acceptable market name.
    (b) For purposes of this section, salmon is genetically engineered 
if it has been modified by recombinant DNA (rDNA) techniques, including 
the entire lineage of salmon that contain the rDNA modification.
    Sec. 755.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay the salary or expenses of personnel--
            (1) to inspect horses under section 3 of the Federal Meat 
        Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603);
            (2) to inspect horses under section 903 of the Federal 
        Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 
        note; Public Law 104-127); or
            (3) to implement or enforce section 352.19 of title 9, Code 
        of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation).
    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2017''.
                                                       Calendar No. 474

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2956

                          [Report No. 114-259]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

Making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
   Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 19, 2016

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
