[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 802 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                        Calendar No. 91
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 802

To authorize the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United 
 States Agency for International Development to provide assistance to 
support the rights of women and girls in developing countries, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 19, 2015

 Mr. Rubio (for himself, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Coons, and Mrs. 
  Gillibrand) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
             referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations

                              May 21, 2015

               Reported by Mr. Corker, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United 
 States Agency for International Development to provide assistance to 
support the rights of women and girls in developing countries, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Girls Count Act of 
2015''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 2. FINDINGS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Congress makes the following findings:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) According to the United States Census Bureau's 
        2013 international figures, 1 person in 12, or close to 
        900,000,000 people, is a girl or young woman age 10 through 
        24.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) The Census Bureau's data also illustrates that 
        young people are the fastest growing segment of the population 
        in developing countries.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) Even though most countries do have birth 
        registration laws, four out of ten babies born in 2012 were not 
        registered worldwide. Moreover, an estimated 36 percent of 
        children under the age of five worldwide (about 230,000,000 
        children) do not possess a birth certificate.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) A nationally recognized proof of birth system 
        is important to determining a child's citizenship, nationality, 
        place of birth, parentage, and age. Without such a system, a 
        passport, driver's license, or other identification card is 
        difficult to obtain. The lack of such documentation can prevent 
        girls and women from officially participating in and 
        benefitting from the formal economic, legal, and political 
        sectors in their countries.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) The lack of birth registration among girls 
        worldwide is particularly concerning as it can exacerbate the 
        disproportionate vulnerability of women to trafficking, child 
        marriage, and lack of access to health and education 
        services.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (6) A lack of birth registration among women and 
        girls can also aggravate what, in many places, amounts to an 
        already reduced ability to seek employment, participate in 
        civil society, or purchase or inherit land and other 
        assets.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (7) Girls undertake much of the domestic labor 
        needed for poor families to survive: carrying water, harvesting 
        crops, tending livestock, caring for younger children, and 
        doing chores.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (8) Accurate assessments of access to education, 
        poverty levels, and overall census activities are hampered by 
        the lack of official information on women and girls. Without 
        this rudimentary information, assessments of foreign assistance 
        and domestic social welfare programs are difficult to 
        gauge.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (9) To help ensure that women and girls are 
        considered in United States foreign assistance policies and 
        programs, that their needs are addressed in the design, 
        implementation, and evaluation of foreign assistance programs, 
        and that women and girls have the opportunity to succeed, it is 
        important that girls be counted and have access to birth 
        certificates and other official documentation.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    It is the policy of the United States to--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) encourage countries to support the rule of law 
        and ensure girls and boys of all ages are able to fully 
        participate in society, including by providing birth 
        certifications and other official documentation;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) enhance training and capacity-building in key 
        developing countries, local nongovernmental organizations, and 
        other civil society organizations, including organizations 
        representing children and families in the design, 
        implementation, and monitoring of programs under this Act, to 
        effectively address the needs of birth registries in countries 
        where girls are systematically undercounted; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) incorporate into the design, implementation, 
        and evaluation of policies and programs measures to evaluate 
        the impact that such policies and programs have on 
        girls.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 4. UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE TO SUPPORT COUNTING OF GIRLS 
              IN THE DEVELOPING WORLD.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    (a) Authorization.--The Secretary and the Administrator 
are authorized to prioritize and advance ongoing efforts to--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) support programs that will contribute to 
        improved and sustainable Civil Registration and Vital 
        Statistics Systems (CRVS) with a focus on birth 
        registration;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) support programs that build the capacity of 
        developing countries' national and local legal and policy 
        frameworks to prevent discrimination against girls;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) support programs to help increase property 
        rights, social security, home ownership, land tenure security, 
        and inheritance rights, particularly for women; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) assist key ministries in the governments of 
        key developing countries, including health, interior, youth, 
        and education ministries, to ensure that girls and boys from 
        poor households have equitable access to social 
        programs.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Coordination With Multilateral Organizations.--The 
Secretary and the Administrator are authorized to coordinate with the 
World Bank, relevant United Nations agencies and programs, and other 
relevant organizations to encourage and work with countries to enact, 
implement, and enforce laws that specifically collect data on girls and 
establish registration programs to ensure girls are appropriately 
counted and have the opportunity to be active participants in the 
social, legal, and political sectors of society in their 
countries.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Coordination With Private Sector and Civil Society 
Organizations.--The Secretary and the Administrator are authorized to 
work with the United States, international, and local private sector 
and civil society organizations to advocate for the registration and 
documentation of all girls and boys in developing countries, in order 
to help prevent exploitation, violence, and other abuses and to help 
provide economic and social opportunities.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 5. REPORT.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    The Secretary and the Administrator shall include in 
relevant evaluations and reports to Congress the following 
information:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) To the extent practicable, a breakdown of 
        United States foreign assistance beneficiaries by age, gender, 
        marital status, location, and school enrollment 
        status.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) A description, as appropriate, of how United 
        States foreign assistance benefits girls.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) Specific information, as appropriate, on 
        programs that address the particular needs of girls.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    In this Act:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' 
        means the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Foreign assistance.--The term ``foreign 
        assistance'' has the meaning given the term in section 634(b) 
        of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
        2394(b)).</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
        Secretary of State.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 7. SUNSET.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act shall expire on the date that is five years after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.</DELETED>

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Girls Count Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) According to the United States Census Bureau's 2013 
        international figures, 1 person in 12, or close to 900,000,000 
        people, is a girl or young woman age 10 through 24.
            (2) The Census Bureau's data also illustrates that young 
        people are the fastest growing segment of the population in 
        developing countries.
            (3) Even though most countries do have birth registration 
        laws, four out of ten babies born in 2012 were not registered 
        worldwide. Moreover, an estimated 36 percent of children under 
        the age of five worldwide (about 230,000,000 children) do not 
        possess a birth certificate.
            (4) A nationally recognized proof of birth system is 
        important to determining a child's citizenship, nationality, 
        place of birth, parentage, and age. Without such a system, a 
        passport, driver's license, or other identification card is 
        difficult to obtain. The lack of such documentation can prevent 
        girls and women from officially participating in and 
        benefitting from the formal economic, legal, and political 
        sectors in their countries.
            (5) The lack of birth registration among girls worldwide is 
        particularly concerning as it can exacerbate the 
        disproportionate vulnerability of women to trafficking, child 
        marriage, and lack of access to health and education services.
            (6) A lack of birth registration among women and girls can 
        also aggravate what, in many places, amounts to an already 
        reduced ability to seek employment, participate in civil 
        society, or purchase or inherit land and other assets.
            (7) Girls undertake much of the domestic labor needed for 
        poor families to survive: carrying water, harvesting crops, 
        tending livestock, caring for younger children, and doing 
        chores.
            (8) Accurate assessments of access to education, poverty 
        levels, and overall census activities are hampered by the lack 
        of official information on women and girls. Without this 
        rudimentary information, assessments of foreign assistance and 
        domestic social welfare programs are difficult to gauge.
            (9) To help ensure that women and girls are considered in 
        United States foreign assistance policies and programs, that 
        their needs are addressed in the design, implementation, and 
        evaluation of foreign assistance programs, and that women and 
        girls have the opportunity to succeed, it is important that 
        girls be counted and have access to birth certificates and 
        other official documentation.

SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States to--
            (1) encourage countries to support the rule of law and 
        ensure girls and boys of all ages are able to fully participate 
        in society, including by providing birth certifications and 
        other official documentation;
            (2) enhance training and capacity-building in key 
        developing countries, local nongovernmental organizations, and 
        other civil society organizations, including faith-based 
        organizations and organizations representing children and 
        families in the design, implementation, and monitoring of 
        programs under this Act, to effectively address the needs of 
        birth registries in countries where girls are systematically 
        undercounted; and
            (3) incorporate into the design, implementation, and 
        evaluation of policies and programs measures to evaluate the 
        impact that such policies and programs have on girls.

SEC. 4. UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE TO SUPPORT COUNTING OF GIRLS IN THE 
              DEVELOPING WORLD.

    (a) Authorization.--The Secretary and the Administrator are 
authorized to prioritize and advance ongoing efforts to--
            (1) support programs that will contribute to improved and 
        sustainable Civil Registration and Vital Statistics Systems 
        (CRVS) with a focus on birth registration;
            (2) support programs that build the capacity of developing 
        countries' national and local legal and policy frameworks to 
        prevent discrimination against girls in gaining access to birth 
        certificates, particularly where this may help prevent 
        exploitation, violence, and other abuse; and
            (3) support programs and key ministries, including, 
        interior, youth, and education ministries, to help increase 
        property rights, social security, home ownership, land tenure 
        security, inheritance rights, access to education, and economic 
        and entrepreneurial opportunities, particularly for women and 
        girls.
    (b) Coordination With Multilateral Organizations.--The Secretary 
and the Administrator are authorized to coordinate with the World Bank, 
relevant United Nations agencies and programs, and other relevant 
organizations to encourage and work with countries to enact, implement, 
and enforce laws that specifically collect data on girls and establish 
registration programs to ensure girls are appropriately counted and 
have the opportunity to be active participants in the social, legal, 
and political sectors of society in their countries.
    (c) Coordination With Private Sector and Civil Society 
Organizations.--The Secretary and the Administrator are authorized to 
work with the United States, international, and local private sector 
and civil society organizations to advocate for the registration and 
documentation of all girls and boys in developing countries, in order 
to help prevent exploitation, violence, and other abuses and to help 
provide economic and social opportunities.

SEC. 5. REPORT.

    The Secretary and the Administrator shall include in relevant 
evaluations and reports to Congress the following information:
            (1) To the extent practicable, a breakdown of United States 
        foreign assistance beneficiaries by age, gender, marital 
        status, location, and school enrollment status.
            (2) A description, as appropriate, of how United States 
        foreign assistance benefits girls.
            (3) Specific information, as appropriate, on programs that 
        address the particular needs of girls.

SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development.
            (2) Foreign assistance.--The term ``foreign assistance'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 634(b) of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2394(b)).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of State.

SEC. 7. SUNSET.

    This Act shall expire on the date that is five years after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
                                                        Calendar No. 91

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 802

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To authorize the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United 
 States Agency for International Development to provide assistance to 
support the rights of women and girls in developing countries, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 21, 2015

                       Reported with an amendment
