[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1632 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 175
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1632

  To require a regional strategy to address the threat posed by Boko 
                                 Haram.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 18, 2015

 Ms. Collins (for herself, Ms. Ayotte, Ms. Baldwin, Mrs. Fischer, Ms. 
     Mikulski, Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Feinstein, Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. 
 Murkowski, Ms. Cantwell, Mrs. Shaheen, Mrs. Capito, Ms. Stabenow, Ms. 
 Heitkamp, Mrs. Murray, and Mr. Rubio) introduced the following bill; 
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations

                             July 29, 2015

               Reported by Mr. Corker, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To require a regional strategy to address the threat posed by Boko 
                                 Haram.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. REGIONAL STRATEGY TO ADDRESS THE THREAT POSED BY 
              BOKO HARAM.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    (a) Strategy Required.--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and 
        the Secretary of Defense shall jointly develop and submit to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress a five-year strategy to 
        help enable the Government of Nigeria, members of the 
        Multinational Joint Task Force to Combat Boko Haram (MNJTF) 
        authorized by the African Union, and relevant partners to 
        counter the regional threat of Boko Haram and assist the 
        Government of Nigeria and its neighbors to accept and address 
        legitimate grievances of vulnerable populations in areas 
        affected by Boko Haram.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Elements.--At a minimum, the strategy must 
        address the following elements:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) Enhance, pursuant to existing 
                authorities and restrictions, the institutional 
                capacity, including military capabilities, of the 
                Government of Nigeria and partner nations in the 
                region, as appropriate, to counter the threat posed by 
                Boko Haram.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) Provide humanitarian support to 
                civilian populations impacted by Boko Haram's 
                activity.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) Specific activities through which the 
                United States Government intends to improve and enhance 
                the capacity of Multinational Joint Task Force to 
                Combat Boko Haram partner nations to investigate and 
                prosecute human rights abuses by security forces and 
                promote respect for the rule of law within the 
                military.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (D) A means for assisting Nigeria, and as 
                appropriate, Multinational Joint Task Force to Combat 
                Boko Haram nations, to counter violent extremism, 
                including efforts to address underlying societal 
                factors that contribute to the ability of Boko Haram to 
                radicalize and recruit individuals (including poverty, 
                the lack of economic opportunity and access to 
                education, public health, and other social 
                services).</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (E) A plan to strengthen and promote the 
                rule of law, including by improving the capacity of the 
                civilian police and judicial system in Nigeria, 
                enhancing public safety, and responding to crime 
                (including gender-based violence), while respecting 
                human rights and strengthening accountability measures, 
                including measures to prevent corruption and 
                abuses.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (F) Strengthen the long-term capacity of 
                the Government of Nigeria to enhance security for 
                schools such that children are safer and girls seeking 
                an education are better protected, and to combat 
                gender-based violence and gender inequality.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (G) Support the adoption of a United 
                Nations Security Council Resolution authorizing a 
                regional Multinational Joint Task Force to counter Boko 
                Haram.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (H) Identify and develop mechanisms for 
                coordinating the implementation of the strategy across 
                the inter-agency and with the Government of Nigeria, 
                regional partners, and other relevant foreign 
                partners.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (I) Identify the resources required, in an 
                amount not less than $25,000,000, to achieve the 
                strategy's objectives.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Assessment.--The Director of National Intelligence 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress an assessment 
(in classified form) regarding the willingness and capability of the 
Government of Nigeria to implement the strategy required by subsection 
(a), including the capability gaps, if any, of the government and 
military forces of Nigeria that would need to be addressed in order to 
enable the Government of Nigeria and the governments of its partner 
countries in the region to counter the threat of Boko Haram and to 
address grievances of vulnerable populations in areas affected by Boko 
Haram.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
        on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
        on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.</DELETED>

SECTION 1. REGIONAL STRATEGY TO ADDRESS THE THREAT POSED BY BOKO HARAM.

    (a) Strategy Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and the 
        Secretary of Defense shall jointly develop and submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a five-year strategy to help 
        enable the Government of Nigeria, members of the Multinational 
        Joint Task Force to Combat Boko Haram (MNJTF) authorized by the 
        African Union, and relevant partners to counter the regional 
        threat of Boko Haram and assist the Government of Nigeria and 
        its neighbors to accept and address legitimate grievances of 
        vulnerable populations in areas affected by Boko Haram.
            (2) Elements.--At a minimum, the strategy must address the 
        following elements:
                    (A) Enhance, pursuant to existing authorities and 
                restrictions, the institutional capacity, including 
                military capabilities, of the Government of Nigeria and 
                partner nations in the region, as appropriate, to 
                counter the threat posed by Boko Haram.
                    (B) Provide humanitarian support to civilian 
                populations impacted by Boko Haram's activity.
                    (C) Specific activities through which the United 
                States Government intends to improve and enhance the 
                capacity of Multinational Joint Task Force to Combat 
                Boko Haram partner nations to investigate and prosecute 
                human rights abuses by security forces and promote 
                respect for the rule of law within the military.
                    (D) A means for assisting Nigeria, and as 
                appropriate, Multinational Joint Task Force to Combat 
                Boko Haram nations, to counter violent extremism, 
                including efforts to address underlying societal 
                factors shown to contribute to the ability of Boko 
                Haram to radicalize and recruit individuals.
                    (E) A plan to strengthen and promote the rule of 
                law, including by improving the capacity of the 
                civilian police and judicial system in Nigeria, 
                enhancing public safety, and responding to crime 
                (including gender-based violence), while respecting 
                human rights and strengthening accountability measures, 
                including measures to prevent corruption.
                    (F) Strengthen the long-term capacity of the 
                Government of Nigeria to enhance security for schools 
                such that children are safer and girls seeking an 
                education are better protected, and to combat gender-
                based violence and gender inequality.
                    (G) Identify and develop mechanisms for 
                coordinating the implementation of the strategy across 
                the inter-agency and with the Government of Nigeria, 
                regional partners, and other relevant foreign partners.
                    (H) Identify the resources required to achieve the 
                strategy's objectives.
    (b) Assessment.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress an assessment regarding the 
willingness and capability of the Government of Nigeria and regional 
partners to implement the strategy required by subsection (a), 
including the capability gaps, if any, of the government and military 
forces of Nigeria that would need to be addressed in order to enable 
the Government of Nigeria and the governments of its partner countries 
in the region to counter the threat of Boko Haram and to address 
legitimate grievances of vulnerable populations in areas affected by 
Boko Haram.
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that lack of 
economic opportunity and access to education, justice, and other social 
services contributes to the ability of Boko Haram to radicalize and 
recruit individuals.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
                                                       Calendar No. 175

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1632

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

  To require a regional strategy to address the threat posed by Boko 
                                 Haram.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 29, 2015

                       Reported with an amendment
