[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 720 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 112
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 720

                          [Report No. 114-551]

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4641) to provide for the 
  establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and 
    update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain 
medication, and for other purposes, and providing for consideration of 
   the bill (H.R. 5046) to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968 to authorize the Attorney General to make grants to 
assist State and local governments in addressing the national epidemic 
                of opioid abuse, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 10, 2016

   Mr. Collins of Georgia, from the Committee on Rules, reported the 
  following resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and 
                         ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4641) to provide for the 
  establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and 
    update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain 
medication, and for other purposes, and providing for consideration of 
   the bill (H.R. 5046) to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968 to authorize the Attorney General to make grants to 
assist State and local governments in addressing the national epidemic 
                of opioid abuse, and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4641) to provide for the 
establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and 
update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain 
medication, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall 
be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall 
not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. After 
general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the 
five-minute rule. It shall be in order to consider as an original bill 
for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce now printed in the bill. The committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are 
waived. No amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be in order except those printed in part A of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each 
such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, 
may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the 
report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the 
conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee 
shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may 
have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House 
on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or 
to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved 
into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 5046) to amend the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize the Attorney General 
to make grants to assist State and local governments in addressing the 
national epidemic of opioid abuse, and for other purposes. The first 
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
the Judiciary. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to consider 
as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text 
of Rules Committee Print 114-52. That amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment 
to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order 
except those printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only 
in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
                                                 House Calendar No. 112

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 720

                          [Report No. 114-551]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4641) to provide for the 
  establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and 
    update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain 
medication, and for other purposes, and providing for consideration of 
   the bill (H.R. 5046) to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968 to authorize the Attorney General to make grants to 
assist State and local governments in addressing the national epidemic 
                of opioid abuse, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 10, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
