[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6443 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6443

 To amend the Internal Revenue Code to impose an excise tax on opioid 
 manufacturers, to make the funds collected through such tax available 
for opioid (including heroin) abuse prevention and treatment programs, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 6, 2016

Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico (for herself, Mr. Blumenauer, 
Mr. Cicilline, and Mr. DeSaulnier) introduced the following bill; which 
was referred to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
 Committees on Energy and Commerce, and the Budget, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Internal Revenue Code to impose an excise tax on opioid 
 manufacturers, to make the funds collected through such tax available 
for opioid (including heroin) abuse prevention and treatment programs, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Heroin and Opioid Abuse Prevention 
and Treatment Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. EXCISE TAX ON OPIOIDS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter E of chapter 32 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 4192. OPIOIDS.

    ``(a) In General.--There is hereby imposed on the manufacturer, 
producer, or importer of any taxable active opioid a tax equal to the 
amount determined under subsection (b).
    ``(b) Amount Determined.--The amount determined under this 
subsection with respect to a manufacturer, producer, or importer for a 
calendar year is 1 cent per milligram of taxable active opioid in the 
production or manufacturing quota determined for such manufacturer, 
producer, or importer for the calendar year under section 306 of the 
Controlled Substances Act.
    ``(c) Taxable Active Opioid.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) In general.--The term `taxable active opioid' means 
        any controlled substance (as defined in section 102 of the 
        Controlled Substances Act) manufactured in the United States 
        which is opium, an opiate, or any derivative thereof. Such term 
        excludes a narcotic drug for maintenance treatment or 
        detoxification treatment if, to dispense the drug, a 
        practitioner must obtain a separate registration under section 
        303(g) of the Controlled Substances Act.
            ``(2) Other ingredients.--In the case of a product that 
        includes a taxable active opioid and another ingredient, 
        subsection (a) shall apply only to the portion of such product 
        that is a taxable active opioid.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) The heading of subchapter E of chapter 32 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``Medical 
        Devices'' and inserting ``Other Medical Products''.
            (2) The table of subchapters for chapter 32 of such Code is 
        amended by striking the item relating to subchapter E and 
        inserting the following new item:

               ``subchapter e. other medical products''.

            (3) The table of sections for subchapter E of chapter 32 of 
        such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        item:

``Sec. 4192. Opioids.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to calendar years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 3. GRANTS TO STATES FOR PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF OPIOID 
              (INCLUDING HEROIN) ABUSE.

    (a) In General.--The Public Health Service Act is amended by 
inserting after section 399V-6 (42 U.S.C. 280g-17) the following new 
section:

``SEC. 399V-7. PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF OPIOID (INCLUDING HEROIN) 
              ABUSE.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall provide--
            ``(1) grants to States for research on opioids (including 
        heroin); and
            ``(2) grants to States for opioid abuse prevention and 
        treatment, which may include--
                    ``(A) establishing new addiction treatment 
                facilities for opioid addicts;
                    ``(B) establishing sober living facilities for 
                recovering opioid addicts;
                    ``(C) recruiting and increasing reimbursement for 
                certified mental health providers providing opioid 
                abuse treatment in medically underserved communities or 
                communities with high rates of opioid abuse;
                    ``(D) expanding access to long-term, residential 
                treatment programs for opioid addicts and recovering 
                addicts;
                    ``(E) establishing or operating support programs 
                that offer employment services, housing, and other 
                support services for recovering opioid addicts;
                    ``(F) establishing or operating housing for 
                children whose parents are participating in opioid 
                abuse treatment programs;
                    ``(G) establishing or operating facilities to 
                provide care for babies born with neonatal abstinence 
                syndrome;
                    ``(H) establishing or operating controlled opioid 
                take-back programs; and
                    ``(I) other opioid abuse prevention and treatment 
                programs, as the Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(b) Appropriation of Funds.--From time to time, beginning in the 
second calendar year that begins after the date of enactment of this 
section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer from the general 
fund of the Treasury an amount equal to the total amount of taxes 
collected under section 4192 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services to carry out this section. 
Amounts transferred under this subsection shall remain available 
without further appropriation until expended.''.
    (b) Emergency Designation.--The amounts made available by 
amendments made by this section are designated as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act 
of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(g)).
                                 <all>
