[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 767 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 121
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 767

                          [Report No. 114-607]

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4775) to facilitate 
efficient State implementation of ground-level ozone standards, and for 
     other purposes; providing for consideration of the concurrent 
 resolution (H. Con. Res. 89) expressing the sense of Congress that a 
   carbon tax would be detrimental to the United States economy; and 
 providing for the consideration of the concurrent resolution (H. Con. 
  Res. 112) expressing the sense of Congress opposing the President's 
                proposed $10 tax on every barrel of oil.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 7, 2016

   Mr. Woodall, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4775) to facilitate 
efficient State implementation of ground-level ozone standards, and for 
     other purposes; providing for consideration of the concurrent 
 resolution (H. Con. Res. 89) expressing the sense of Congress that a 
   carbon tax would be detrimental to the United States economy; and 
 providing for the consideration of the concurrent resolution (H. Con. 
  Res. 112) expressing the sense of Congress opposing the President's 
                proposed $10 tax on every barrel of oil.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4775) to facilitate efficient 
State implementation of ground-level ozone standards, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General 
debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall 
be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of 
amendment under the five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Energy and Commerce now 
printed in the bill. The committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against the 
committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be in order except those printed in the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be 
offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by 
a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall 
be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the 
committee amendment in the nature of a substitute. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House any concurrent resolution specified in section 3 
of this resolution. All points of order against consideration of each 
such concurrent resolution are waived. Each such concurrent resolution 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
each such concurrent resolution are waived. The previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on each such concurrent resolution and 
preamble to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division 
of the question except one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Ways and Means.
    Sec. 3.  The concurrent resolutions referred to in section 2 of 
this resolution are as follows:
            (1) The concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 89) expressing 
        the sense of Congress that a carbon tax would be detrimental to 
        the United States economy.
            (2) The concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 112) expressing 
        the sense of Congress opposing the President's proposed $10 tax 
        on every barrel of oil.
                                                 House Calendar No. 121

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 767

                          [Report No. 114-607]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4775) to facilitate 
efficient State implementation of ground-level ozone standards, and for 
     other purposes; providing for consideration of the concurrent 
 resolution (H. Con. Res. 89) expressing the sense of Congress that a 
   carbon tax would be detrimental to the United States economy; and 
 providing for the consideration of the concurrent resolution (H. Con. 
  Res. 112) expressing the sense of Congress opposing the President's 
                proposed $10 tax on every barrel of oil.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              June 7, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
