[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6536 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6536

 To prohibit the employment of school bus drivers with serious moving 
                              violations.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 30, 2016

   Ms. Meng introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                Committee on Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To prohibit the employment of school bus drivers with serious moving 
                              violations.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``No School Bus Drivers with DUIs Act 
of 2016''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITED EMPLOYMENT OF SCHOOL BUS DRIVERS WITH SERIOUS MOVING 
              VIOLATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subpart 2 of part F of title VIII of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 8549D. PROHIBITED EMPLOYMENT OF SCHOOL BUS DRIVERS WITH SERIOUS 
              MOVING VIOLATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--No State, State educational agency, or local 
educational agency that receives funds made available by this Act may 
employ an individual as a school bus driver if that individual has been 
convicted of, or pled guilty to, drunk driving or a driving violation 
that is a felony under State law.
    ``(b) Prohibition.--The Secretary shall not have the authority to 
mandate, direct, or control the specific measures adopted by a State, 
State educational agency, or local educational agency pursuant to this 
section.
    ``(c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to prevent a State, State educational agency, or local 
education agency from adopting a law, regulation, or policy that 
provides greater or additional protections prohibiting the employment 
of a school employee, contractor, or agent.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--The table of contents in section 2 of 
the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 is amended by 
inserting after the item related to section 8549C the following:

``Sec. 8549D. Prohibited employment of school bus drivers with serious 
                            moving violations.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this Act shall take 
effect on the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
                                 <all>
