[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5557 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5557

   To amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 and the National Voter 
    Registration Act of 1993 to prohibit an election official from 
 requiring an individual to present a piece of identification that has 
 an associated cost as a condition of voting or registering to vote in 
        an election for Federal office, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 22, 2016

Mr. Veasey (for himself, Mrs. Watson Coleman, Ms. Norton, Ms. Wilson of 
Florida, Mr. Hinojosa, Ms. Lee, Mr. Ellison, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Cummings, 
  Mr. Ted Lieu of California, Ms. Fudge, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
    Texas, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Meeks, Mrs. Dingell, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
   Grijalva, Ms. Jackson Lee, Miss Rice of New York, and Mr. Rangel) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                          House Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Help America Vote Act of 2002 and the National Voter 
    Registration Act of 1993 to prohibit an election official from 
 requiring an individual to present a piece of identification that has 
 an associated cost as a condition of voting or registering to vote in 
        an election for Federal office, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Poll Tax Prohibition Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN VOTER IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title III of the Help America Vote 
Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21081 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 303 the following new section:

``SEC. 303A. PROHIBITING AN ELECTION OFFICIAL FROM REQUIRING 
              IDENTIFICATION WITH ASSOCIATED COST AS CONDITION FOR 
              VOTING.

    ``(a) In General.--An election official may not require an 
individual to present a piece of identification that has an associated 
cost as a condition of voting in an election for Federal office or, in 
the case of an individual who wishes to vote by mail in such an 
election, a copy of a piece of identification that has an associated 
cost.
    ``(b) Associated Cost.--For purposes of this section, a piece of 
identification for an individual has an associated cost if, to obtain 
such identification, the individual is required--
            ``(1) to pay a fee for such identification; or
            ``(2) to provide a supplemental document that the 
        individual is required to pay a fee to obtain.
    ``(c) Supplemental Document.--For purposes of this section, a 
supplemental document, in relation to a piece of identification, is a 
document that an individual is required to present in order to receive 
that piece of identification.
    ``(d) Definition of Fee.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`fee' includes any administrative fee or other cost that an individual 
must pay as a condition of receiving a piece of identification or 
supplemental document.''.
    (b) Enforcement.--Section 401 of such Act (52 U.S.C. 2111) is 
amended by striking ``and 303'' and inserting ``303, and 303A''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to elections held after the end of the 90-day period 
which begins on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of such Act is 
amended by adding after the item relating to section 303 the following 
new item:

``Sec. 303A. Prohibiting an election official from requiring 
                            identification with associated cost as 
                            condition for voting.''.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN VOTER REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 9 of the National Voter Registration Act 
of 1993 (52 U.S.C. 20508) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph 
                (3);
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (4) and inserting ``; and'';
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(5) may not require the inclusion of a piece of 
        identification that has an associated cost or a copy of a piece 
        of identification that has an associated cost.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Special Rules Regarding Cost of Identification.--
            ``(1) Associated cost.--For purposes of this section, a 
        piece of identification for an individual has an associated 
        cost if, to obtain such identification, the individual is 
        required--
                    ``(A) to pay a fee for such identification; or
                    ``(B) to provide a supplemental document that the 
                individual is required to pay a fee to obtain.
            ``(2) Supplemental document.--For purposes of this section, 
        a supplemental document, in relation to a piece of 
        identification, is a document that an individual is required to 
        present in order to receive that piece of identification.
            ``(3) Definition of fee.--For purposes of this section, the 
        term `fee' includes any administrative fee or other cost that 
        an individual must pay as a condition of receiving a piece of 
        identification or supplemental document.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to voter registration forms submitted on or after 
the date that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
