[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 120 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. CON. RES. 120

 Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds for the 3rd Annual Fallen 
         Firefighters Congressional Flag Presentation Ceremony.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 26, 2016

  Mr. King of New York (for himself, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Hoyer, and Mr. 
  Reichert) submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was 
     referred to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION


 
 Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds for the 3rd Annual Fallen 
         Firefighters Congressional Flag Presentation Ceremony.

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring),

SECTION 1. USE OF CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR FALLEN FIREFIGHTERS CONGRESSIONAL 
              FLAG PRESENTATION CEREMONY.

    (a) In General.--The Congressional Fire Services Institute and the 
National Fallen Firefighters Foundation (in this resolution referred to 
jointly as the ``sponsor'') shall be permitted to sponsor a public 
event, the 3rd Annual Fallen Firefighters Congressional Flag 
Presentation Ceremony (in this resolution referred to as the 
``event''), on the Capitol Grounds in order to honor the firefighters 
who died in the line of duty in 2015.
    (b) Date of Event.--The event shall be held on September 28, 2016, 
or on such other date as the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate jointly 
designate.

SEC. 2. TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

    (a) In General.--Under conditions to be prescribed by the Architect 
of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board, the event shall be--
            (1) free of admission charge and open to the public; and
            (2) arranged not to interfere with the needs of Congress.
    (b) Expenses and Liabilities.--The sponsor shall assume full 
responsibility for all expenses and liabilities incident to all 
activities associated with the event.

SEC. 3. EVENT PREPARATIONS.

    Subject to the approval of the Architect of the Capitol, the 
sponsor is authorized to erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, 
sound amplification devices, and other related structures and equipment 
as may be required for the event.

SEC. 4. ADDITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS.

    The Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board are 
authorized to make such additional arrangements as may be required to 
carry out the event.

SEC. 5. ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the Capitol Police 
Board shall provide for enforcement of the restrictions contained in 
section 5104(c) of title 40, United States Code, concerning sales, 
advertisements, displays, and solicitations on the Capitol Grounds, as 
well as other restrictions applicable to the Capitol Grounds, with 
respect to the event.
    (b) Use of Fire Equipment.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Capitol Police Board may allow the sponsor, as part of the 
event, to use traditional, hand-held fire equipment, such as axes and 
Pulaski tools, and any other fire equipment that the Board determines 
can be used in a safe manner and will not cause damage to the Capitol 
Grounds or harm to any individual.
                                 <all>
