[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6495 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6495

    To require the Secretary of Homeland Security, with respect to 
individuals who have timely filed a DACA renewal request, to provide a 
      short-term, interim grant of deferred action and employment 
 authorization when there is a delay in processing the renewal request 
because of a service disruption or other technical problem that causes 
                    adjudications to stop or stall.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 8, 2016

    Mr. Veasey (for himself and Mr. Castro of Texas) introduced the 
  following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To require the Secretary of Homeland Security, with respect to 
individuals who have timely filed a DACA renewal request, to provide a 
      short-term, interim grant of deferred action and employment 
 authorization when there is a delay in processing the renewal request 
because of a service disruption or other technical problem that causes 
                    adjudications to stop or stall.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ensure Access to DACA Act''.

SEC. 2. EFFECT OF DELAYS IN DACA RENEWAL PROCESS.

    In the case of an alien who received a grant of deferred action 
under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (``DACA'') program 
established pursuant to the memorandum of the Secretary of Homeland 
Security dated June 15, 2012, and has submitted a DACA renewal request 
during the period beginning 150 days before the expiration date of 
their period of deferred action and ending 120 days before such 
expiration date, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide a 
temporary, interim grant of deferred action (and work authorization if 
the alien previously had work authorization under DACA) if there is a 
delay in reaching a final decision on the renewal request because of a 
service disruption, or other technical problem, that causes 
adjudications to stop or stall for a week or longer. The interim 
renewal shall be effective until a final decision on the renewal 
request is made.
                                 <all>
