[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4974 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 503
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4974


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 26, 2016

            Received; read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  Making appropriations for military construction, the Department of 
   Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,  That the following 
sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for military construction, the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2017, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Army as currently authorized by 
law, including personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other 
personal services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and 
for construction and operation of facilities in support of the 
functions of the Commander in Chief, $503,459,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That, of this amount, not to exceed 
$98,159,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, architect 
and engineer services, and host nation support, as authorized by law, 
unless the Secretary of the Army determines that additional obligations 
are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps as currently authorized 
by law, including personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command 
and other personal services necessary for the purposes of this 
appropriation, $1,021,580,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021: Provided, That, of this amount, not to exceed $88,230,000 shall 
be available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Navy 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized 
by law, $1,398,758,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021: 
Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $143,582,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of the Air Force 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor: Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available under this heading shall 
be for construction of the Joint Intelligence Analysis Complex 
Consolidation, Phase 3, at Royal Air Force Croughton, United Kingdom, 
unless authorized in an Act authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 
2017 for military construction.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and 
real property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$2,024,643,000 (reduced by $801,000) (increased by $801,000), to remain 
available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That such amounts of this 
appropriation as may be determined by the Secretary of Defense may be 
transferred to such appropriations of the Department of Defense 
available for military construction or family housing as the Secretary 
may designate, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or fund to 
which transferred: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, 
not to exceed $201,422,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations 
are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $232,930,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021: Provided, That, of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$8,729,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Director of the Army National Guard determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $143,957,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021: Provided, That, of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$10,462,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Director of the Air National Guard determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $68,230,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That, of the 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $7,500,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as 
authorized by law, unless the Chief of the Army Reserve determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Navy Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $38,597,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021: Provided, That, of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$3,783,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Secretary of the Navy determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $188,950,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2021: Provided, That, of the 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $4,500,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as 
authorized by law, unless the Chief of the Air Force Reserve determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
the determination and the reasons therefor.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized by 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $177,932,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Family Housing Construction, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $200,735,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $325,995,000.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, $94,011,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2021.

    Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, 
as authorized by law, $300,915,000.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

     For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $61,352,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2021.

          Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $274,429,000.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
operation and maintenance, leasing, and minor construction, as 
authorized by law, $59,157,000.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, 
$3,258,000, to remain available until expended, for family housing 
initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United 
States Code, providing alternative means of acquiring and improving 
military family housing and supporting facilities.

               Department of Defense Base Closure Account

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account, 
established by section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), $230,237,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for 
construction, where cost estimates exceed $25,000, to be performed 
within the United States, except Alaska, without the specific approval 
in writing of the Secretary of Defense setting forth the reasons 
therefor.
    Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for construction 
shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for construction may 
be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department 
of Transportation, for the construction of access roads as authorized 
by section 210 of title 23, United States Code, when projects 
authorized therein are certified as important to the national defense 
by the Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to begin construction of new bases in the United States for which 
specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used for purchase of land or land easements in excess of 100 percent of 
the value as determined by the Army Corps of Engineers or the Naval 
Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) where there is a 
determination of value by a Federal court; (2) purchases negotiated by 
the Attorney General or the designee of the Attorney General; (3) where 
the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site preparation; or (3) 
install utilities for any family housing, except housing for which 
funds have been made available in annual Acts making appropriations for 
military construction.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title for minor 
construction may be used to transfer or relocate any activity from one 
base or installation to another, without prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used for the procurement of steel for any construction project or 
activity for which American steel producers, fabricators, and 
manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete for such 
steel procurement.
    Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to initiate a new installation overseas without prior notification 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated for architect and engineer contracts estimated by the 
Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan, 
in any North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded 
to United States firms or United States firms in joint venture with 
host nation firms.
    Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this title for 
military construction in the United States territories and possessions 
in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in countries bordering the 
Arabian Gulf, may be used to award any contract estimated by the 
Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor: Provided, That 
this section shall not be applicable to contract awards for which the 
lowest responsive and responsible bid of a United States contractor 
exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a foreign 
contractor by greater than 20 percent: Provided further, That this 
section shall not apply to contract awards for military construction on 
Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid is 
submitted by a Marshallese contractor.
    Sec. 113.  The Secretary of Defense shall inform the appropriate 
committees of both Houses of Congress, including the Committees on 
Appropriations, of plans and scope of any proposed military exercise 
involving United States personnel 30 days prior to its occurring, if 
amounts expended for construction, either temporary or permanent, are 
anticipated to exceed $100,000.
    Sec. 114.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 115.  For military construction or family housing projects 
that are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
made available to a military department or defense agency for the 
construction of military projects may be obligated for a military 
construction project or contract, or for any portion of such a project 
or contract, at any time before the end of the fourth fiscal year after 
the fiscal year for which funds for such project were made available, 
if the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from funds 
available for military construction projects; and (2) do not exceed the 
amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by which the cost 
of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 117.  Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 
and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, such additional amounts as 
may be determined by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to: 
(1) the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from 
amounts appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, 
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the 
same period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund; or 
(2) the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing 
Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for construction of military 
unaccompanied housing in ``Military Construction'' accounts, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund: Provided, 
That appropriations made available to the Funds shall be available to 
cover the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the 
Department of Defense pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of 
chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, pertaining to alternative 
means of acquiring and improving military family housing, military 
unaccompanied housing, and supporting facilities.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118.  In addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense, amounts may be transferred from the 
Department of Defense Base Closure Account to the fund established by 
section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan 
Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for expenses associated 
with the Homeowners Assistance Program incurred under 42 U.S.C. 
3374(a)(1)(A). Any amounts transferred shall be merged with and be 
available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the 
fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 119.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this title for operation and maintenance of family housing 
shall be the exclusive source of funds for repair and maintenance of 
all family housing units, including general or flag officer quarters: 
Provided, That not more than $35,000 per unit may be spent annually for 
the maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer quarters 
without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a notification 
provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 and 2883 of 
title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress, except that an after-the-fact notification 
shall be submitted if the limitation is exceeded solely due to costs 
associated with environmental remediation that could not be reasonably 
anticipated at the time of the budget submission: Provided further, 
That the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) is to report annually 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress all 
operation and maintenance expenditures for each individual general or 
flag officer quarters for the prior fiscal year.
    Sec. 120.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement Account 
established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of title 10, United 
States Code, are appropriated and shall be available until expended for 
the purposes specified in subsection (i)(1) of such section or until 
transferred pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such section.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 121.  During the 5-year period after appropriations available 
in this Act to the Department of Defense for military construction and 
family housing operation and maintenance and construction have expired 
for obligation, upon a determination that such appropriations will not 
be necessary for the liquidation of obligations or for making 
authorized adjustments to such appropriations for obligations incurred 
during the period of availability of such appropriations, unobligated 
balances of such appropriations may be transferred into the 
appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'', 
to be merged with and to be available for the same time period and for 
the same purposes as the appropriation to which transferred.
    Sec. 122. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available in this Act may be used by the Secretary of the 
Army to relocate a unit in the Army that--
            (1) performs a testing mission or function that is not 
        performed by any other unit in the Army and is specifically 
        stipulated in title 10, United States Code; and
            (2) is located at a military installation at which the 
        total number of civilian employees of the Department of the 
        Army and Army contractor personnel employed exceeds 10 percent 
        of the total number of members of the regular and reserve 
        components of the Army assigned to the installation.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of 
the Army certifies to the congressional defense committees that in 
proposing the relocation of the unit of the Army, the Secretary 
complied with Army Regulation 5-10 relating to the policy, procedures, 
and responsibilities for Army stationing actions.
    Sec. 123.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in an 
account funded under the headings in this title may be transferred 
among projects and activities within the account in accordance with the 
reprogramming guidelines for military construction and family housing 
construction contained in Department of Defense Financial Management 
Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 7, of March 2011, as in effect 
on the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 124.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated or expended for planning and design and construction of 
projects at Arlington National Cemetery.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 125.  Of the unobligated balances available for ``Military 
Construction, Army'', from prior appropriation Acts (other than 
appropriations designated by law as being for contingency operations 
directly related to the global war on terrorism or as an emergency 
requirement), $25,000,000 are hereby rescinded.

                          (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 126.  Of the unobligated balances available for ``Military 
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', from prior appropriation Acts 
(other than appropriations designated by law as being for contingency 
operations directly related to the global war on terrorism or as an 
emergency requirement), $51,848,000 are hereby rescinded.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 127.  Of the unobligated balances available for ``Military 
Construction, Defense-Wide'', from prior appropriation Acts (other than 
appropriations designated by law as being for contingency operations 
directly related to the global war on terrorism or as an emergency 
requirement), $37,377,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 128.  For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
Army'', $40,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021: 
Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry out 
construction projects, in priority order, identified in the Department 
of the Army's Unfunded Priority List for Fiscal Year 2017 submitted by 
the Secretary of Defense to Congress: Provided further, That such 
funding is subject to authorization prior to obligation and expenditure 
of funds: Provided further, That, not later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure 
plan for funds provided under this section.
    Sec. 129.  For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
Navy and Marine Corps'', $293,600,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2021: Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to 
carry out construction projects, in priority order, identified in the 
Department of the Navy's Unfunded Priority List for Fiscal Year 2017 
submitted by the Secretary of Defense to Congress: Provided further, 
That such funding is subject to authorization prior to obligation and 
expenditure of funds: Provided further, That, not later than 30 days 
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an 
expenditure plan for funds provided under this section.
    Sec. 130.  For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
Army National Guard'', $67,500,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2021: Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry out 
construction projects, in priority order, identified in the Department 
of the Army's Unfunded Priority List for Fiscal Year 2017 submitted by 
the Secretary of Defense to Congress: Provided further, That such 
funding is subject to authorization prior to obligation and expenditure 
of funds: Provided further, That, not later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure 
plan for funds provided under this section.
    Sec. 131.  For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
Army Reserve'', $86,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021: Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry out 
construction projects, in priority order, identified in the Department 
of the Army's Unfunded Priority List for Fiscal Year 2017 submitted by 
the Secretary of Defense to Congress: Provided further, That such 
funding is subject to authorization prior to obligation and expenditure 
of funds: Provided further, That, not later than 30 days after 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress an expenditure 
plan for funds provided under this section.
    Sec. 132.  For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, 
Air Force'', $26,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021: 
Provided, That such funds may only be obligated to carry out 
construction projects, in priority order, identified in the Department 
of the Air Force's Unfunded Priority List for Fiscal Year 2017 
submitted by the Secretary of Defense to Congress: Provided further, 
That such funding is subject to authorization prior to obligation and 
expenditure of funds: Provided further, That not later than 30 days 
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
an expenditure plan for funds provided under this section.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 133.  Of the unobligated balances made available in prior 
appropriation Acts for the fund established in section 1013(d) of the 
Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 (42 
U.S.C. 3374) (other than appropriations designated by law as being for 
contingency operations directly related to the global war on terrorism 
or as an emergency requirement), $25,000,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 134.  For the purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional 
defense committees'' means the Committees on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, and the Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 135.  Of the unobligated balances available for ``NATO 
Security Investment Program'', from prior appropriations Acts (other 
than appropriations designated by law as being for contingency 
operations directly related to the global war on terrorism or as an 
emergency requirement), $30,000,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 136.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out the closure or realignment of the United States Naval 
Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized 
by section 107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, 
United States Code; pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as 
authorized by chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code; and burial benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement Program 
for Survivors, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-
service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial 
life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of title IV of 
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et seq.) and 
for other benefits as authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, 
and chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$90,119,449,000, to remain available until expended and to become 
available on October 1, 2017: Provided, That not to exceed $17,224,000 
of the amount made available for fiscal year 2018 under this heading 
shall be reimbursed to ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', and ``Information Technology Systems'' for necessary 
expenses in implementing the provisions of chapters 51, 53, and 55 of 
title 38, United States Code, the funding source for which is 
specifically provided as the ``Compensation and Pensions'' 
appropriation: Provided further, That such sums as may be earned on an 
actual qualifying patient basis, shall be reimbursed to ``Medical Care 
Collections Fund'' to augment the funding of individual medical 
facilities for nursing home care provided to pensioners as authorized.

                         readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 
36, 39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$13,708,648,000, to remain available until expended and to become 
available on October 1, 2017: Provided, That expenses for 
rehabilitation program services and assistance which the Secretary is 
authorized to provide under subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, 
United States Code, other than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) 
of that subsection, shall be charged to this account.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by chapters 19 and 21, 
title 38, United States Code, $124,504,000, to remain available until 
expended, of which $107,899,000 shall become available on October 1, 
2017.

                 veterans housing benefit program fund

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by subchapters I 
through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code: Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
Provided further, That, during fiscal year 2017, within the resources 
available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for direct loans 
are authorized for specially adapted housing loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $167,612,000.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $36,000, as authorized by chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code: Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$2,517,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $389,000, which may be paid to the appropriation 
for ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, United States 
Code, $1,163,000.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

    For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by law, 
inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and veterans described in section 
1705(a) of title 38, United States Code, including care and treatment 
in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department, and 
including medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food 
services, and salaries and expenses of healthcare employees hired under 
title 38, United States Code, aid to State homes as authorized by 
section 1741 of title 38, United States Code, assistance and support 
services for caregivers as authorized by section 1720G of title 38, 
United States Code, loan repayments authorized by section 604 of the 
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 
111-163; 124 Stat. 1174; 38 U.S.C. 7681 note), and hospital care and 
medical services authorized by section 1787 of title 38, United States 
Code; $850,000,000 (increased by $4,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000) 
(increased by $10,000,000), which shall be in addition to funds 
previously appropriated under this heading that became available on 
October 1, 2016; and, in addition, $44,886,554,000, plus 
reimbursements, shall become available on October 1, 2017, and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, That, of the 
amount made available on October 1, 2017, under this heading, 
$1,400,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a priority for the 
provision of medical treatment for veterans who have service-connected 
disabilities, lower income, or have special needs: Provided further, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall give priority funding for the provision of basic 
medical benefits to veterans in enrollment priority groups 1 through 6: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs may authorize the dispensing of 
prescription drugs from Veterans Health Administration facilities to 
enrolled veterans with privately written prescriptions based on 
requirements established by the Secretary: Provided further, That the 
implementation of the program described in the previous proviso shall 
incur no additional cost to the Department of Veterans Affairs.

                         medical community care

    For necessary expenses for furnishing health care to individuals 
pursuant to chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, at non-
Department facilities, $7,246,181,000, plus reimbursements, to be 
derived from amounts appropriated in title II of division J of Public 
Law 114-113 under the headings ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Support 
and Compliance'', or ``Medical Facilities'' which became available on 
October 1, 2016; and, in addition, $9,409,118,000 shall become 
available on October 1, 2017, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018: Provided, That, of the amount made available on 
October 1, 2017, under this heading, $1,500,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2019.

                     medical support and compliance

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
capital policy activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the Department as 
authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, and the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.), 
$6,654,480,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 
1, 2017, and shall remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, 
That, of the amount made available on October 1, 2017, under this 
heading, $100,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

                           medical facilities

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other necessary 
facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; for administrative 
expenses in support of planning, design, project management, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction, and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; 
for oversight, engineering, and architectural activities not charged to 
project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, or providing 
facilities in the several hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of 
the Department, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by 
the hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; for leases 
of facilities; and for laundry services, $5,434,880,000, plus 
reimbursements, shall become available on October 1, 2017, and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018: Provided, That, of the 
amount made available on October 1, 2017, under this heading, 
$250,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by chapter 73 of 
title 38, United States Code, $663,366,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018.

                    National Cemetery Administration

    For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery Administration for 
operations and maintenance, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of one passenger motor vehicle for use in cemeterial 
operations; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, alteration or 
improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the National 
Cemetery Administration, $271,220,000, of which not to exceed 
$26,600,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018.

                      Departmental Administration

                         general administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including administrative expenses 
in support of Department-wide capital planning, management and policy 
activities, uniforms, or allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, $336,659,000 (reduced by $5,500,000) (reduced 
by $1,500,000) (increased by $1,500,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000), of which not to 
exceed $10,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018: 
Provided, That funds provided under this heading may be transferred to 
``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

                       board of veterans appeals

    For necessary operating expenses of the Board of Veterans Appeals, 
$156,096,000, of which not to exceed $15,610,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2018.

      general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration

    For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General Services Administration 
for security guard services, and reimbursement of the Department of 
Defense for the cost of overseas employee mail, $2,826,160,000 (reduced 
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000): Provided, That expenses for 
services and assistance authorized under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and 
(11) of section 3104(a) of title 38, United States Code, that the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines are necessary to enable 
entitled veterans: (1) to the maximum extent feasible, to become 
employable and to obtain and maintain suitable employment; or (2) to 
achieve maximum independence in daily living, shall be charged to this 
account: Provided further, That, of the funds made available under this 
heading, not to exceed $141,000,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018.

                     information technology systems

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for information technology systems and 
telecommunications support, including developmental information systems 
and operational information systems; for pay and associated costs; and 
for the capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, 
including management and related contractual costs of said 
acquisitions, including contractual costs associated with operations 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$4,220,869,000 (increased by $5,000,000), plus reimbursements: 
Provided, That $1,247,548,000 shall be for pay and associated costs, of 
which not to exceed $36,300,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2018: Provided further, That $2,502,052,000 shall be for operations 
and maintenance, of which not to exceed $177,900,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018: Provided further, That $471,269,000 
(increased by $5,000,000) shall be for information technology systems 
development, modernization, and enhancement, and shall remain available 
until September 30, 2018: Provided further, That amounts made available 
for information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement may not be obligated or expended until the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs or the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress a certification of the amounts, in parts or in full, 
to be obligated and expended for each development project: Provided 
further, That amounts made available for salaries and expenses, 
operations and maintenance, and information technology systems 
development, modernization, and enhancement may be transferred among 
the three subaccounts after the Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests 
from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued: Provided 
further, That amounts made available for the ``Information Technology 
Systems'' account for development, modernization, and enhancement may 
be transferred among projects or to newly defined projects: Provided 
further, That no project may be increased or decreased by more than 
$1,000,000 of cost prior to submitting a request to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress to make the transfer and an 
approval is issued, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has 
elapsed: Provided further, That funds under this heading may be used by 
the Interagency Program Office through the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to define data standards, code sets, and value sets used to 
enable interoperability: Provided further, That of the amounts made 
available under this heading for operations and maintenance and 
information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement, not more than a total amount of $168,113,000 shall be 
available for VistA Evolution or any successor: Provided further, That 
none of the funds made available by the preceding proviso may be 
obligated or expended for such program or any successor until the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs: (1) certifies to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress that the Department of 
Veterans Affairs has deployed modernized electronic health record 
software supporting clinicians of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
and the Department of Defense no later than December 31, 2016, while 
ensuring continued support and compatibility with the interoperability 
platform and full standards-based interoperability, as stipulated by 
the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
113-66); (2) submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress the VistA Evolution Business Case and supporting documents 
regarding continuation of VistA Evolution or alternatives to VistA 
Evolution, including an analysis of necessary or desired capabilities, 
technical and security requirements, the plan for modernizing the 
platform framework, and all associated costs; and (3) submits to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, and such 
Committees approve, the following: a report that describes a strategic 
plan for VistA Evolution, or any successor, and the associated 
implementation plan including metrics and timelines; a master schedule 
and lifecycle cost estimate for VistA Evolution or any successor; and 
an implementation plan for the transition from the Project Management 
Accountability System (PMAS) to the new project delivery framework (the 
Veteran-focused Integration Process (VIP)) that includes the 
methodology by which projects will be tracked, progress measured, and 
deliverables evaluated: Provided further, That the funds made available 
under this heading for information technology systems development, 
modernization, and enhancement, shall be for the projects, and in the 
amounts, specified under this heading in the report accompanying this 
Act.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, to 
include information technology, in carrying out the provisions of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $160,106,000, of which 
not to exceed $14,800,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2018.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
architectural and engineering services, construction management 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
more than the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, 
United States Code, or where funds for a project were made available in 
a previous major project appropriation, $528,110,000, of which 
$494,310,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2021, and of 
which $33,800,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That 
except for advance planning activities, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and other capital 
asset management related activities, including portfolio development 
and management activities, and investment strategy studies funded 
through the advance planning fund and the planning and design 
activities funded through the design fund, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and salaries and 
associated costs of the resident engineers who oversee those capital 
investments funded through this account and contracting officers who 
manage specific major construction projects, and funds provided for the 
purchase of land, security, and maintenance for the National Cemetery 
Administration through the land acquisition line item, none of the 
funds made available under this heading shall be used for any project 
which has not been approved by the Congress in the budgetary process: 
Provided further, That funds made available under this heading for 
fiscal year 2017, for each approved project shall be obligated: (1) by 
the awarding of a construction documents contract by September 30, 
2017; and (2) by the awarding of a construction contract by September 
30, 2018: Provided further, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall promptly submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress a written report on any approved major construction 
project for which obligations are not incurred within the time 
limitations established above: Provided further, That, of the amount 
made available under this heading, $222,620,000 for Veterans Health 
Administration major construction projects shall not be available until 
the Department of Veterans Affairs--
            (1) enters into an agreement with an appropriate non-
        Department of Veterans Affairs Federal entity to serve as the 
        design and/or construction agent for any Veterans Health 
        Administration major construction project with a Total 
        Estimated Cost of $100,000,000 or above by providing full 
        project management services, including management of the 
        project design, acquisition, construction, and contract 
        changes, consistent with section 502 of Public Law 114-58; and
            (2) certifies in writing that such an agreement is executed 
        and intended to minimize or prevent subsequent major 
        construction project cost overruns and provides a copy of the 
        agreement entered into and any required supplementary 
        information to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
        of Congress.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including planning and 
assessments of needs which may lead to capital investments, 
architectural and engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period 
services costs associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and storm 
drainage system construction costs, and site acquisition, or for any of 
the purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of 
title 38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, where the 
estimated cost of a project is equal to or less than the amount set 
forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States Code, 
$372,069,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, along with 
unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, Minor Projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project where 
the estimated cost is equal to or less than the amount set forth in 
such section: Provided, That funds made available under this heading 
shall be for: (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical facilities under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department which are necessary 
because of loss or damage caused by any natural disaster or 
catastrophe; and (2) temporary measures necessary to prevent or to 
minimize further loss by such causes.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify, or alter 
existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary facilities in State 
homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by sections 8131 
through 8137 of title 38, United States Code, $80,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             grants for construction of veterans cemeteries

    For grants to assist States and tribal organizations in 
establishing, expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as authorized 
by section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, $45,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2017 for 
``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' may be transferred as necessary 
to any other of the mentioned appropriations: Provided, That, before a 
transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and such Committees issue 
an approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2017, in this or any other Act, under the 
``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'' accounts may be transferred 
among the accounts: Provided, That any transfers among the ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', and ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or less of the total amount 
appropriated to the account in this or any other Act may take place 
subject to notification from the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the amount 
and purpose of the transfer: Provided further, That any transfers among 
the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', and ``Medical 
Support and Compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 percent, or exceeding 
the cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may take place only after 
the Secretary requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval 
is issued: Provided further, That any transfers to or from the 
``Medical Facilities'' account may take place only after the Secretary 
requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.
    Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for services authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; lease of 
a facility or land or both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
appropriations for ``Construction, Major Projects'', and 
``Construction, Minor Projects'') shall be available for the purchase 
of any site for or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 205.  No appropriations in this title shall be available for 
hospitalization or examination of any persons (except beneficiaries 
entitled to such hospitalization or examination under the laws 
providing such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such 
treatment under sections 7901 through 7904 of title 5, United States 
Code, or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement of the 
cost of such hospitalization or examination is made to the ``Medical 
Services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for 
``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' shall be available for payment 
of prior year accrued obligations required to be recorded by law 
against the corresponding prior year accounts within the last quarter 
of fiscal year 2016.
    Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be 
available to pay prior year obligations of corresponding prior year 
appropriations accounts resulting from sections 3328(a), 3334, and 
3712(a) of title 31, United States Code, except that if such 
obligations are from trust fund accounts they shall be payable only 
from ``Compensation and Pensions''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from the 
National Service Life Insurance Fund under section 1920 of title 38, 
United States Code, the Veterans' Special Life Insurance Fund under 
section 1923 of title 38, United States Code, and the United States 
Government Life Insurance Fund under section 1955 of title 38, United 
States Code, reimburse the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans 
Benefits Administration'' and ``Information Technology Systems'' 
accounts for the cost of administration of the insurance programs 
financed through those accounts: Provided, That reimbursement shall be 
made only from the surplus earnings accumulated in such an insurance 
program during fiscal year 2017 that are available for dividends in 
that program after claims have been paid and actuarially determined 
reserves have been set aside: Provided further, That if the cost of 
administration of such an insurance program exceeds the amount of 
surplus earnings accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be 
made only to the extent of such surplus earnings: Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for 
fiscal year 2017 which is properly allocable to the provision of each 
such insurance program and to the provision of any total disability 
income insurance included in that insurance program.
    Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease proceeds to 
reimburse an account for expenses incurred by that account during a 
prior fiscal year for providing enhanced-use lease services, may be 
obligated during the fiscal year in which the proceeds are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for salaries and 
other administrative expenses shall also be available to reimburse the 
Office of Resolution Management of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
and the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication 
under section 319 of title 38, United States Code, for all services 
provided at rates which will recover actual costs but not to exceed 
$47,668,000 for the Office of Resolution Management and $3,532,000 for 
the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication: 
Provided, That payments may be made in advance for services to be 
furnished based on estimated costs: Provided further, That amounts 
received shall be credited to the ``General Administration'' and 
``Information Technology Systems'' accounts for use by the office that 
provided the service.
    Sec. 211.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall be 
available for hospital care, nursing home care, or medical services 
provided to any person under chapter 17 of title 38, United States 
Code, for a non-service-connected disability described in section 
1729(a)(2) of such title, unless that person has disclosed to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may 
require, current, accurate third-party reimbursement information for 
purposes of section 1729 of such title: Provided, That the Secretary 
may recover, in the same manner as any other debt due the United 
States, the reasonable charges for such care or services from any 
person who does not make such disclosure as required: Provided further, 
That any amounts so recovered for care or services provided in a prior 
fiscal year may be obligated by the Secretary during the fiscal year in 
which amounts are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, proceeds or 
revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing activities (including 
disposal) may be deposited into the ``Construction, Major Projects'' 
and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts and be used for 
construction (including site acquisition and disposition), alterations, 
and improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such sums as realized 
are in addition to the amount provided for in ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects''.
    Sec. 213.  Amounts made available under ``Medical Services'' are 
available--
            (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
        equipment; and
            (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and other 
        expenses incidental to funerals and burials for beneficiaries 
        receiving care in the Department.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 214.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, may be transferred to the ``Medical Services'' and ``Medical 
Community Care'' accounts to remain available until expended for the 
purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 215.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter into 
agreements with Indian tribes and tribal organizations which are party 
to the Alaska Native Health Compact with the Indian Health Service, and 
Indian tribes and tribal organizations serving rural Alaska which have 
entered into contracts with the Indian Health Service under the Indian 
Self Determination and Educational Assistance Act, to provide 
healthcare, including behavioral health and dental care. The Secretary 
shall require participating veterans and facilities to comply with all 
appropriate rules and regulations, as established by the Secretary. The 
term ``rural Alaska'' shall mean those lands sited within the external 
boundaries of the Alaska Native regions specified in sections 7(a)(1)-
(4) and (7)-(12) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended 
(43 U.S.C. 1606), and those lands within the Alaska Native regions 
specified in sections 7(a)(5) and 7(a)(6) of the Alaska Native Claims 
Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1606), which are not within the 
boundaries of the municipality of Anchorage, the Fairbanks North Star 
Borough, the Kenai Peninsula Borough or the Matanuska Susitna Borough.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 216.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 8118 of title 
38, United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts, to remain 
available until expended for the purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 217.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to implement any policy prohibiting the Directors of the Veterans 
Integrated Services Networks from conducting outreach or marketing to 
enroll new veterans within their respective Networks.
    Sec. 218.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal 
quarter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a report on the 
financial status of the Department of Veterans Affairs for the 
preceding quarter: Provided, That, at a minimum, the report shall 
include the direction contained in the explanatory statement described 
in section 4 in the matter preceding division A of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2016, Public Law 114-113 in title II of Division J 
of the consolidated Act in the paragraph entitled ``Quarterly Report'', 
under the heading ``General Administration''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 219.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', 
``Medical Facilities'', ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', ``General Administration'', and ``National Cemetery 
Administration'' accounts for fiscal year 2017 may be transferred to or 
from the ``Information Technology Systems'' account: Provided, That 
such transfers may not result in a more than 10 percent aggregate 
increase in the total amount made available by this Act for the 
``Information Technology Systems'' account: Provided further, That, 
before a transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 220.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2017 for ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Support and Compliance'', ``Medical Facilities'', 
``Construction, Minor Projects'', and ``Information Technology 
Systems'', up to $274,731,000, plus reimbursements, may be transferred 
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be used for operation of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500): Provided, That 
additional funds may be transferred from accounts designated in this 
section to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon written notification 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress: Provided further, That 
section 223 of title II of Division J of Public Law 114-113 is 
repealed.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 221.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs which become available on October 1, 2017, for 
``Medical Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', up to $280,802,000, plus 
reimbursements, may be transferred to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, 
established by section 1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be 
used for operation of the facilities designated as combined Federal 
medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4500): Provided, That additional funds may be 
transferred from accounts designated in this section to the Joint 
Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
Demonstration Fund upon written notification by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 222.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, for healthcare provided at facilities designated as combined 
Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for transfer 
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571); and (2) for operations of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 223.  Of the amounts available in this title for ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Community Care'', ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'', and ``Medical Facilities'', a minimum of $15,000,000 
shall be transferred to the DOD-VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, 
as authorized by section 8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, to 
remain available until expended, for any purpose authorized by section 
8111 of title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 224.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall notify the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of all bid 
savings in a major construction project that total at least $5,000,000, 
or 5 percent of the programmed amount of the project, whichever is 
less: Provided, That such notification shall occur within 14 days of a 
contract identifying the programmed amount: Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress 14 days prior to the obligation of such bid savings and 
shall describe the anticipated use of such savings.
    Sec. 225.  None of the funds made available for ``Construction, 
Major Projects'' may be used for a project in excess of the scope 
specified for that project in the original justification data provided 
to the Congress as part of the request for appropriations unless the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs receives approval from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 226.  Of the funds provided to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2017 for ``Medical Support and Compliance'', a 
maximum of $40,000,000 may be obligated from the ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'' account for the VistA Evolution and electronic health 
record interoperability projects: Provided, That funds in addition to 
these amounts may be obligated for the VistA Evolution and electronic 
health record interoperability projects upon written notification by 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 227.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide written 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress 15 days prior to organizational changes which result in the 
transfer of 25 or more full-time equivalents from one organizational 
unit of the Department of Veterans Affairs to another.
    Sec. 228.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide on a 
quarterly basis to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress notification of any single national outreach and awareness 
marketing campaign in which obligations exceed $2,000,000.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 229.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, upon determination 
that such action is necessary to address needs of the Veterans Health 
Administration, may transfer to the ``Medical Services'' account any 
discretionary appropriations made available for fiscal year 2017 in 
this title (except appropriations made to the ``General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' account) or any 
discretionary unobligated balances within the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, including those appropriated for fiscal year 2017, that were 
provided in advance by appropriations Acts: Provided, That transfers 
shall be made only with the approval of the Office of Management and 
Budget: Provided further, That the transfer authority provided in this 
section is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law: 
Provided further, That no amounts may be transferred from amounts that 
were designated by Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a 
concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided further, That such 
authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher priority items, 
based on emergent healthcare requirements, than those for which 
originally appropriated and in no case where the item for which funds 
are requested has been denied by Congress: Provided further, That, upon 
determination that all or part of the funds transferred from an 
appropriation are not necessary, such amounts may be transferred back 
to that appropriation and shall be available for the same purposes as 
originally appropriated: Provided further, That before a transfer may 
take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority 
to make the transfer and receive approval of that request.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 230.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2017, under the ``Board of Veterans Appeals'' 
and the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'' accounts may be transferred between such accounts: 
Provided, That before a transfer may take place, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall request from the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress the authority to make the transfer and receive 
approval from such Committees for such request.
    Sec. 231.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not reprogram 
funds among major construction projects or programs if such instance of 
reprogramming will exceed $5,000,000, unless such reprogramming is 
approved by the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.

                         (rescission of funds)

    Sec. 232.  Of the unobligated balances available within the ``DOD-
VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund'', $30,000,000 are hereby 
rescinded.

                         (rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 233.  Of the discretionary funds made available in Public Law 
114-113 for the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2017, 
$266,760,000 are rescinded from ``Medical Services'', $52,031,000 are 
rescinded from ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and $18,591,000 are 
rescinded from ``Medical Facilities''.
    Sec. 234.  The amounts otherwise made available by this Act for the 
following accounts of the Department of Veterans Affairs are hereby 
reduced by the following amounts:
            (1) ``Veterans Health Administration--Medical and 
        Prosthetic Research'', $4,004,000.
            (2) ``National Cemetery Administration'', $1,464,000.
            (3) ``Departmental Administration--General 
        Administration'', $1,250,000.
            (4) ``Departmental Administration--Board of Veterans 
        Appeals'', $1,214,000.
            (5) ``Departmental Administration--General Operating 
        Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', $24,849,000.
            (6) ``Departmental Administration--Information Technology 
        Systems'', $12,535,000.
            (7) ``Departmental Administration--Office of Inspector 
        General'', $1,302,000.
    Sec. 235.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure that the 
toll-free suicide hotline under section 1720F(h) of title 38, United 
States Code--
            (1) provides to individuals who contact the hotline 
        immediate assistance from a trained professional; and
            (2) adheres to all requirements of the American Association 
        of Suicidology.
    Sec. 236. (a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall treat a 
marriage and family therapist described in subsection (b) as qualified 
to serve as a marriage and family therapist in the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, regardless of any requirements established by the 
Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education.
     (b) A marriage and family therapist described in this subsection 
is a therapist who meets each of the following criteria:
            (1) Has a masters or higher degree in marriage and family 
        therapy, or a related field, from a regionally accredited 
        program.
            (2) Is licensed as a marriage and family therapist in a 
        State (as defined in section 101(20) of title 38, United States 
        Code) and possesses the highest level of licensure offered from 
        the State.
            (3) Has passed the Association of Marital and Family 
        Therapy Regulatory Board Examination in Marital and Family 
        Therapy.
    Sec. 237.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pay a performance award under 
section 5384 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 238.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to end, suspend, or relocate hospital-based services with respect to a 
health care facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs that is--
            (1) the subject of an environmental impact statement in 
        accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
        (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
            (2) designated as a National Historic Landmark by the 
        National Park Service; and
            (3) located in a highly rural area.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement 
basis only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $7,500 
for official reception and representation expenses; and insurance of 
official motor vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of 
such countries, $75,100,000, to remain available until expended.

                 foreign currency fluctuations account

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes authorized by section 2109 of 
title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by sections 7251 through 
7298 of title 38, United States Code, $30,945,000: Provided, That 
$2,500,000 shall be available for the purpose of providing financial 
assistance as described, and in accordance with the process and 
reporting procedures set forth, under this heading in Public Law 102-
229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for maintenance, operation, and improvement 
of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National 
Cemetery, including the purchase or lease of passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement on a one-for-one basis only, and not to exceed $1,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $70,800,000, of 
which not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2019. In addition, such sums as may be necessary for parking 
maintenance, repairs and replacement, to be derived from the ``Lease of 
Department of Defense Real Property for Defense Agencies'' account.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               trust fund

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home to 
operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi, to be paid from funds available in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund, $64,300,000, of which $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for construction and renovation of the 
physical plants at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi: Provided, That of the amounts made available under this 
heading from funds available in the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust 
Fund, $22,000,000 shall be paid from the general fund of the Treasury 
to the Trust Fund.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 301.  Funds appropriated in this Act under the heading 
``Department of Defense--Civil, Cemeterial Expenses, Army'', may be 
provided to Arlington County, Virginia, for the relocation of the 
federally owned water main at Arlington National Cemetery, making 
additional land available for ground burials.
    Sec. 302.  Amounts deposited into the special account established 
under 10 U.S.C. 4727 are appropriated and shall be available until 
expended to support activities at the Army National Military 
Cemeteries.

                                TITLE IV

                    OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Army'', 
$18,900,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, for projects 
outside of the United States: Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Navy and 
Marine Corps'', $59,809,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2021, for projects outside of the United States: Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Air Force'' 
$88,291,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, for projects 
outside of the United States: Provided, That such amount is designated 
by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

    For an additional amount for ``Military Construction, Defense-
Wide'', $5,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, for 
projects outside of the United States: Provided, That such amount is 
designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 502.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 503.  All departments and agencies funded under this Act are 
encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory authorities and 
funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' technologies and 
procedures in the conduct of their business practices and public 
service activities.
    Sec. 504.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and notifications 
required by this Act shall be submitted to the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related 
Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 505.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 506.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for a project or program named for an individual serving as a Member, 
Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the United States House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 507. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public Web 
site of that agency any report required to be submitted by the Congress 
in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head of the 
agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
        information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.
    Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by an agency of the executive branch to pay for first-class travel by 
an employee of the agency in contravention of sections 301-10.122 
through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to execute a contract for goods or services, including construction 
services, where the contractor has not complied with Executive Order 
No. 12989.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
lease or purchase new light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or 
for an agency's fleet inventory, except in accordance with Presidential 
Memorandum--Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 512. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in this Act may 
be used to construct, renovate, or expand any facility in the United 
States, its territories, or possessions to house any individual 
detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for the 
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
control of the Department of Defense.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control 
                of the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States 
                Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    Sec. 513.  Unobligated balances of amounts appropriated under title 
VI of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education 
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015 (division G of Public Law 
113-235) and title IX of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2015 (division J of Public Law 
113-235) shall also be available for necessary expenses to prevent, 
prepare for, and respond to Zika virus, domestically and 
internationally: Provided, That such amounts are designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, except that such amounts shall be available only if the 
President subsequently so designates such amounts and transmits such 
designation to the Congress.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 514.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is $0.
    Sec. 515.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to propose, plan for, or execute a new or additional Base Realignment 
and Closure (BRAC) round.
    Sec. 516.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract with any offeror or any of its principals if 
the offeror certifies, as required by Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
that the offeror or any of its principals--
            (1) within a 3-year period preceding this offer has been 
        convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against it for: 
        commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with 
        obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public 
        (Federal, State, or local) contract or subcontract; violation 
        of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to the 
        submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, 
        forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, 
        making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal 
        criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property;
            (2) are presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or 
        civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of 
        any of the offenses enumerated above in paragraph (1); or
            (3) within a 3-year period preceding this offer, has been 
        notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that 
        exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.
    Sec. 517.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for the Veterans Experience Office.
    Sec. 518.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to--
            (1) carry out the memorandum from the Veterans Benefit 
        Administration known as Fast Letter 13-10, issued on May 20, 
        2013; or
            (2) create or maintain any patient record-keeping system 
        other than those currently approved by the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs Central Office in Washington, D.C.
    Sec. 519. (a) For an additional amount for ``Veterans Health 
Administration--Medical Services'' for grants to States under 
subchapter III of chapter 81 of title 38, United States Code, to 
expand, remodel, or alter existing buildings for furnishing nursing 
home care to veterans in State homes that are former nursing home 
facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs, as authorized by 
section 8133 of such subchapter, there is hereby appropriated, and the 
amount otherwise provided by this Act for ``Departmental 
Administration--General Administration'' is hereby reduced by, 
$10,000,000.
    (b) None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to 
implement, administer, or enforce the prioritization requirements in 
paragraphs (1)(C) or (2) through (5) of section 8135(c) of title 38, 
United States Code, with respect to the appropriation in subsection 
(a).
    Sec. 520.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of sections 575.106 or 575.206 of title 5, Code of 
Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 521.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in contravention of subchapter III 
of chapter 20 of title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 522.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to enforce VA Adjudication Procedure Manual M21-1, Part IV, Subpart II, 
Chapter 1, Section H, Topic 28.h related to Developing Claims Based on 
Service Aboard Ships Offshore the RVN.
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce Veterans Health Administration 
directive 2011-004 (or directive of the same substance) with respect to 
the prohibition on ``VA providers from completing forms seeking 
recommendations or opinions regarding a Veteran's participation in a 
State marijuana program''.
    Sec. 524.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to modify a military installation in the United States, including 
construction or modification of a facility on a military installation, 
to provide temporary housing for unaccompanied alien children.
    Sec. 525.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement section 8(d)(2) of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
National Cemetery Administration Directive 3220 of November 22, 2005.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017''.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 19, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                       Calendar No. 503

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4974

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  Making appropriations for military construction, the Department of 
   Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2017, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 26, 2016

            Received; read twice and placed on the calendar
