[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2423 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2423

   Making appropriations to address the heroin and opioid drug abuse 
 epidemic for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 18, 2015

 Mrs. Shaheen introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
              referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   Making appropriations to address the heroin and opioid drug abuse 
 epidemic for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                   TITLE I--LAW ENFORCEMENT PROGRAMS

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                       Office of Justice Programs

               state and local law enforcement assistance

    For an additional amount for ``State and local law enforcement 
assistance'', for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant 
program as authorized by subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (except that section 
1001(c), and the special rules for Puerto Rico under section 505(g) of 
title I of such Act shall not apply for purposes of this Act) for 
expenses relating to drug treatment and enforcement programs, law 
enforcement programing, and drug addiction prevention and education 
programs, $200,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency 
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

             community oriented policing services programs

    For an additional amount for ``Community Oriented Policing Services 
Programs'' for competitive grants to State law enforcement agencies in 
States with high rates of primary treatment admissions for heroin or 
other opioids, $10,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
901(b)(2)(A)(i)).

           TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

                       substance abuse treatment

    For an additional amount for ``Substance Abuse Treatment'', 
$240,000,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)):  
Provided further, That of the amount provided--
            (1) $225,000,000 is for the Substance Abuse Prevention and 
        Treatment block grant program under subpart II of part B of 
        title XIX of the Public Health Service Act;
            (2) $10,000,000 is for the Medication Assisted Treatment 
        for Prescription Drug and Opioid Addiction program of the 
        Programs of Regional and National Significance within the 
        Center for Substance Abuse Treatment; and
            (3) $5,000,000 is for the Recovery Community Services 
        program of the Programs of Regional and National Significance 
        within the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment.

                       substance abuse prevention

    For an additional amount for ``Substance Abuse Prevention'', 
$20,000,000 for the Strategic Prevention Framework/Partnership for 
Success Strategic Prevention Framework Rx of the Programs of Regional 
and National Significance within the Center for Substance Abuse 
Prevention, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That such 
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).

                             mental health

    For an additional amount for ``Mental Health'' for the Project 
AWARE program of the Programs of Regional and National Significance 
within the Center for Mental Health Services, $5,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                     injury prevention and control

    For an additional amount for ``Injury Prevention and Control'' for 
expanding State-level prescription drug abuse prevention efforts such 
as improving prescription drug monitoring programs, data collection, 
and collaboration among States, $50,000,000, to remain available until 
expended:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as 
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
901(b)(2)(A)(i)).

                     National Institutes of Health

                    national institute on drug abuse

    For an additional amount for the ``National Institute on Drug 
Abuse'' for carrying out section 301 and title IV of the Public Health 
Service Act with respect to drug abuse, $30,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).

                        Office of the Secretary

            public health and social services emergency fund

    For an additional amount for the ``Public Health and Social 
Services Emergency Fund'' to better coordinate and respond to the 
national heroin and opioid drug abuse crisis at the discretion of the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, $40,000,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That such amount is designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).
                                 <all>
