[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4743 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4743

To authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a National 
     Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 15, 2016

Mr. Castro of Texas (for himself, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Hurd of Texas, Mr. 
Doggett, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Smith of Texas, and Mr. Welch) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Homeland 
                                Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a National 
     Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Cybersecurity Preparedness 
Consortium Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY PREPAREDNESS CONSORTIUM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security may establish a 
consortium to be known as the ``National Cybersecurity Preparedness 
Consortium'' (in this section referred to as the ``Consortium'').
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Consortium is to engage a range of 
academic, nonprofit, private industry, and Federal, State, and local 
government partners to support efforts to address cybersecurity risks 
and incidents (as such terms are defined in section 227 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002), including threats of terrorism and acts of 
terrorism.
    (c) Functions.--The Consortium may--
            (1) provide training to State and local first responders 
        and officials specifically for preparing for and responding to 
        cybersecurity risks and incidents (as such terms are defined in 
        section 227 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
        148)), including threats of terrorism and acts of terrorism, in 
        accordance with current law;
            (2) develop and update a curriculum utilizing existing 
        programs and models in accordance with section 227 of the 
        Homeland Security Act of 2002, for State and local first 
        responders and officials, related to cybersecurity risks and 
        incidents, including threats of terrorism and acts of 
        terrorism;
            (3) provide technical assistance services to build and 
        sustain capabilities in support of preparedness for and 
        response to cybersecurity risks and incidents, including 
        threats of terrorism and acts of terrorism, in accordance with 
        section 227 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002;
            (4) conduct cross-sector cybersecurity training and 
        simulation exercises for entities, including State and local 
        governments, critical infrastructure owners and operators, and 
        private industry, to encourage community-wide coordination in 
        defending against and responding to cybersecurity risks and 
        incidents, including threats of terrorism and acts of 
        terrorism, in accordance with subsection (c) of section 228 of 
        the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 149);
            (5) coordinate with the national cybersecurity and 
        communications integration center of the Department of Homeland 
        Security to help States and communities develop cybersecurity 
        information sharing programs, in accordance with section 227 of 
        the Homeland Security Act of 2002, for the dissemination of 
        homeland security information related to cybersecurity risks 
        and incidents, including threats of terrorism and acts of 
        terrorism; and
            (6) coordinate with appropriate Department of Homeland 
        Security cybersecurity and training officials to assist in the 
        incorporation of cybersecurity risk and incident prevention and 
        response (including related to threats of terrorism and acts of 
        terrorism) into existing State and local emergency plans.
    (d) Prohibition on Duplication.--In carrying out the functions 
under subsection (c), the Consortium may not duplicate existing 
programs or efforts.
    (e) Membership.--The Consortium shall consist of academic, 
nonprofit, industry, and government partners that develop, update, and 
deliver cybersecurity training in support of homeland security. Members 
shall have prior experience conducting cybersecurity training and 
exercises for State and local entities and shall be geographically 
diverse so as to cover different regions across the United States.
    (f) Termination.--The Consortium shall terminate on the date that 
is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
