[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1551 Reported in Senate (RS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 657
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 1551

 To provide for certain requirements relating to the Internet Assigned 
               Numbers Authority stewardship transition.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 11, 2015

Mr. Thune (for himself, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Rubio, Ms. Ayotte, 
and Ms. Klobuchar) introduced the following bill; which was read twice 
 and referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

                            October 27, 2016

 Reported under authority of the order of the Senate of September 29, 
                 2016, by Mr. Thune, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for certain requirements relating to the Internet Assigned 
               Numbers Authority stewardship transition.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Domain Openness Through 
Continued Oversight Matters Act of 2015'' or the ``DOTCOM Act of 
2015''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 2. REQUIREMENTS FOR IANA STEWARDSHIP 
              TRANSITION.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    (a) In General.--Until the date that is 30 legislative 
days after the submission to Congress of the report described in 
subsection (b), the Assistant Secretary may not permit the NTIA's role 
in the performance of the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority functions 
to terminate, lapse, be cancelled, or otherwise cease to be in 
effect.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Report Described.--The report described in this 
subsection is a report that contains--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the proposal relating to the transition of the 
        NTIA's stewardship of the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority 
        functions that was developed in a process convened by ICANN at 
        the request of the NTIA; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) a certification by the Assistant Secretary 
        that--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) such proposal--</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (i) supports and enhances the 
                        multistakeholder model of Internet 
                        governance;</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (ii) maintains the security, 
                        stability, and resiliency of the Internet 
                        domain name system;</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (iii) meets the needs and 
                        expectations of the global customers and 
                        partners of the Internet Assigned Numbers 
                        Authority services;</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (iv) maintains the openness of the 
                        Internet; and</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (v) does not replace the role of 
                        the NTIA with a government-led or 
                        intergovernmental organization solution; 
                        and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) the required changes to ICANN's bylaws 
                contained in the final report of ICANN's Cross 
                Community Working Group on Enhancing ICANN 
                Accountability and the changes to ICANN's bylaws 
                required by ICANN's IANA Stewardship Transition 
                Coordination Group have been implemented.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Definitions.--In this section:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant 
        Secretary'' means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for 
        Communications and Information.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) ICANN.--The term ``ICANN'' means the Internet 
        Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) Legislative day.--The term ``legislative day'' 
        does not include Saturdays, Sundays, legal public holidays, or 
        days either House of Congress is adjourned for more than 3 days 
        during a session of Congress.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) NTIA.--The term ``NTIA'' means the National 
        Telecommunications and Information Administration.</DELETED>

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Domain Openness Through Continued 
Oversight Matters Act of 2015'' or the ``DOTCOM Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. REQUIREMENTS FOR IANA STEWARDSHIP TRANSITION.

    (a) In General.--Until the date that is 30 legislative days after 
the submission to Congress of the report described in subsection (b), 
the Assistant Secretary may not permit the NTIA's role in the 
performance of the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority functions to 
terminate, lapse, be cancelled, or otherwise cease to be in effect.
    (b) Report Described.--The report described in this subsection is a 
report that contains--
            (1) the proposal relating to the transition of the NTIA's 
        stewardship of the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority 
        functions that was developed in a process convened by ICANN at 
        the request of the NTIA; and
            (2) a certification by the Assistant Secretary that--
                    (A) such proposal--
                            (i) supports and enhances the 
                        multistakeholder model of Internet governance;
                            (ii) maintains the security, stability, and 
                        resiliency of the Internet domain name system;
                            (iii) meets the needs and expectations of 
                        the global customers and partners of the 
                        Internet Assigned Numbers Authority services;
                            (iv) maintains the openness of the 
                        Internet; and
                            (v) does not replace the role of the NTIA 
                        with a government-led or intergovernmental 
                        organization solution; and
                    (B) the required changes to ICANN's bylaws 
                contained in the final report of ICANN's Cross 
                Community Working Group on Enhancing ICANN 
                Accountability and the changes to ICANN's bylaws 
                required by ICANN's IANA Stewardship Transition 
                Coordination Group have been adopted.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary'' 
        means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications 
        and Information.
            (2) ICANN.--The term ``ICANN'' means the Internet 
        Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers.
            (3) Legislative day.--The term ``legislative day'' does not 
        include Saturdays, Sundays, legal public holidays, or days 
        either House of Congress is adjourned for more than 3 days 
        during a session of Congress.
            (4) NTIA.--The term ``NTIA'' means the National 
        Telecommunications and Information Administration.
                                                       Calendar No. 657

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 1551

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To provide for certain requirements relating to the Internet Assigned 
               Numbers Authority stewardship transition.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 27, 2016

                       Reported with an amendment
