[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 892 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 150
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 892

                          [Report No. 114-790]

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5303) to provide for 
improvements to the rivers and harbors of the United States, to provide 
 for the conservation and development of water and related resources, 
   and for other purposes; providing for consideration of motions to 
  suspend the rules; and waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of rule 
XIII with respect to consideration of certain resolutions reported from 
                        the Committee on Rules.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 26, 2016

   Mr. Woodall, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5303) to provide for 
improvements to the rivers and harbors of the United States, to provide 
 for the conservation and development of water and related resources, 
   and for other purposes; providing for consideration of motions to 
  suspend the rules; and waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of rule 
XIII with respect to consideration of certain resolutions reported from 
                        the Committee on Rules.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5303) to provide for 
improvements to the rivers and harbors of the United States, to provide 
for the conservation and development of water and related resources, 
and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure now printed in the bill, it shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting 
of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-65. That amendment in the 
nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in 
order except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only 
in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment pursuant to this resolution, 
the Committee of the Whole shall rise without motion. No further 
consideration of the bill shall be in order except pursuant to a 
subsequent order of the House.
    Sec. 2.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of 
September 29, 2016, or September 30, 2016, for the Speaker to entertain 
motions that the House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of 
rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall consult with the Minority 
Leader or her designee on the designation of any matter for 
consideration pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 3.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-
thirds vote to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the 
same day it is presented to the House is waived with respect to any 
resolution reported through the legislative day of September 30, 2016, 
relating to a measure making or continuing appropriations for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2017.
                                                 House Calendar No. 150

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 892

                          [Report No. 114-790]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5303) to provide for 
improvements to the rivers and harbors of the United States, to provide 
 for the conservation and development of water and related resources, 
   and for other purposes; providing for consideration of motions to 
  suspend the rules; and waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of rule 
XIII with respect to consideration of certain resolutions reported from 
                        the Committee on Rules.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 26, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
