[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4800 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4800

To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to carry out a land exchange 
    involving lands within the boundaries of the Cape Cod National 
                   Seashore, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 17, 2016

 Mr. Keating introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to carry out a land exchange 
    involving lands within the boundaries of the Cape Cod National 
                   Seashore, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND EXCHANGE INVOLVING CAPE COD NATIONAL SEASHORE.

    (a) Authorization of Exchange.--If title acceptable to the 
Secretary of the Interior, acting through the National Park Service, 
referred to hereafter in this section as the ``Secretary'') for non-
Federal land defined in subsection (b)(1) is conveyed to the United 
States, the Secretary shall convey to the owner of the non-Federal 
land, subject to valid existing rights, all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the Federal land defined in subsection 
(b)(2).
    (b) Land Descriptions.--
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 1.09 acres of land depicted as Tract 22-4556 on 
        the map titled ``United States Department of the Interior, 
        National Park Service, Northeast Region, Cape Cod National 
        Seashore'' and dated October 20, 1963, Sheet 202-22A.
            (2) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the approximately 1.02 acres of land depicted as Tract 26-4653 
        on the map titled ``United States, Department of the Interior, 
        National Park Service, Northeast Region, Cape Cod National 
        Seashore'' and dated October 27, 1964, Sheet 202-26.
    (c) Acceptable Title.--Title to the non-Federal land conveyed to 
the United States under subsection (a) shall be such title as is 
acceptable to the Secretary, in conformance with title approval 
standards applicable to Federal land acquisitions.
    (d) Applicable Laws; Terms and Conditions.--The exchange under this 
section shall be subject to--
            (1) the laws (including regulations) and policies 
        applicable to exchanges of land administered by the National 
        Park Service, including the laws and policies concerning 
        equalization of values, and environmental compliance; with the 
        exception of appraisal requirements, and
            (2) such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines 
        to be appropriate.
    (e) Appraisals.--For the purpose of valuation of the land proposed 
for exchange under this section, the Secretary may use the appraisals 
conducted by Michael Sutton, Certified General Real Estate Appraiser, 
and dated July 14 and July 22, 2009.
    (f) Administration.--The land acquired by the Secretary pursuant to 
the exchange authorized by this section shall be administered as part 
of the Cape Cod National Seashore.
    (g) Maps.--The maps referred to in subsection (a) shall be on file 
and available for inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
Department of the Interior.
    (h) Definition of Improved Property.--Section 4(d) of Public Law 
87-126 (16 U.S.C. 459b-3(d)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following: ``The term `improved property' includes such dwelling 
structures (including the land thereon) as shall be conveyed by the 
Secretary pursuant to section 2 in exchange for conveyance to or 
acquisition by the Secretary of an improved property as described in 
this section.''.
                                 <all>
