[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3173 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3173

 To promote conservation for the purpose of enhancing hunting, fishing 
             and other outdoor recreational opportunities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 23, 2015

Mr. Walz (for himself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Duncan 
    of South Carolina, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Thompson of 
  California, and Mr. Kind) introduced the following bill; which was 
             referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To promote conservation for the purpose of enhancing hunting, fishing 
             and other outdoor recreational opportunities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sportsmen's Conservation and Outdoor 
Recreation Enhancement Act''.

SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING NATIONAL FISH HABITAT INITIATIVE.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the mission of the National Fish Habitat Initiative is 
        to protect, restore, and enhance the Nation's fish populations 
        through partnerships that foster fish habitat conservation and 
        improve the quality of life for the American people;
            (2) the national network of Fish Habitat Partnerships 
        established under the National Fish Habitat Initiative--
                    (A) promotes intact and healthy fish habitats;
                    (B) encourages community-based projects with a goal 
                of ensuring a broad diversity of fish and fish 
                populations; and
                    (C) supports the economic significance of fish 
                habitat resources and the recreational, subsistence, 
                and commercial fishing linked to these resources in the 
                United States; and
            (3) the enactment by Congress of implementing legislation 
        for the National Fish Habitat Initiative would ensure continued 
        Federal support for the ongoing activities of the National Fish 
        Habitat Partnerships.

SEC. 3. FEDERAL LAND TRANSACTION FACILITATION ACT REAUTHORIZATION.

    The Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act is amended--
            (1) in section 203(1) (43 U.S.C. 2302(1)), by striking 
        ``cultural, or'' and inserting ``cultural, recreational access 
        and use, or other'';
            (2) in section 203(2) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``on the date of enactment of this Act was'' 
        and inserting ``is'';
            (3) in section 205 (43 U.S.C. 2304)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``section 206'' 
                and all that follows through the period and inserting 
                the following: ``section 206--
            ``(1) to complete appraisals and satisfy other legal 
        requirements for the sale or exchange of public land identified 
        for disposal under approved land use plans under section 202 of 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1712);
            ``(2) not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act 
        Reauthorization of 2015, to establish and make available to the 
        public, on the website of the Department of the Interior, a 
        database containing a comprehensive list of all the land 
        referred to in paragraph (1); and
            ``(3) to maintain the database referred to in paragraph 
        (2).''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``11'' and 
                inserting ``22'';
            (4) in section 206(c)(2) (43 U.S.C. 2305(c)(2)), by adding 
        at the end the following:
                    ``(E) Any funds made available under subparagraph 
                (D) that are not obligated or expended by the end of 
                the fourth full fiscal year after the date of the sale 
                or exchange of land that generated the funds may be 
                expended in any State.'';
            (5) in section 206(c)(3) (43 U.S.C. 2305(c)(3))--
                    (A) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following:
                    ``(B) the extent to which the acquisition of the 
                land or interest therein will increase the public 
                availability of resources for, and facilitate public 
                access to, hunting, fishing, and other recreational 
                activities;''; and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and 
                (D) as subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E);
            (6) in section 206(f) (43 U.S.C. 2305(f)), by amending 
        paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) any remaining balance in the account shall be 
        deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit reduction, 
        except that in the case of a fiscal year for which there is no 
        Federal budget deficit, such amounts shall be used to reduce 
        the Federal debt (in such manner as the Secretary of the 
        Treasury considers appropriate).''; and
            (7) in section 207(b) (43 U.S.C. 2306(b))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``96-568'' and inserting 
                        ``96-586''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
                        semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by inserting ``Public Law 105-263;'' 
                        before ``112 Stat.''; and
                            (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
                        inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) the White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and 
        Development Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-432; 120 Stat. 3028);
            ``(4) the Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and 
        Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-424; 118 Stat. 2403);
            ``(5) subtitle F of title I of the Omnibus Public Land 
        Management Act of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 111-
        11);
            ``(6) subtitle O of title I of the Omnibus Public Land 
        Management Act of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 460www note, 1132 note; 
        Public Law 111-11);
            ``(7) section 2601 of the Omnibus Public Land Management 
        Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1108); or
            ``(8) section 2606 of the Omnibus Public Land Management 
        Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1121).''.

SEC. 4. NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION ACT REAUTHORIZATION.

    Section 7(c) of the North American Wetlands Conservation Act (16 
U.S.C. 4406(c)) is amended by striking ``not to exceed--'' and all that 
follows through paragraph (5) and inserting ``not to exceed $50,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2020.''.

SEC. 5. NATIONAL FISH AND WILDLIFE FOUNDATION ESTABLISHMENT ACT 
              REAUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Board of Directors of the Foundation.--
            (1) In general.--Section 3 of the National Fish and 
        Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3702) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
                        the following:
            ``(2) In general.--After consulting with the Secretary of 
        Commerce and considering the recommendations submitted by the 
        Board, the Secretary of the Interior shall appoint 28 Directors 
        who, to the maximum extent practicable, shall--
                    ``(A) be knowledgeable and experienced in matters 
                relating to the conservation of fish, wildlife, or 
                other natural resources; and
                    ``(B) represent a balance of expertise in ocean, 
                coastal, freshwater, and terrestrial resource 
                conservation.''; and
                            (ii) by striking paragraph (3) and 
                        inserting the following:
            ``(3) Terms.--Each Director (other than a Director 
        described in paragraph (1)) shall be appointed for a term of 6 
        years.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (g)(2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``(A) 
                        Officers and employees may not be appointed 
                        until the Foundation has sufficient funds to 
                        pay them for their service. Officers'' and 
                        inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Officers''; and
                            (ii) by striking subparagraph (B) and 
                        inserting the following:
                    ``(B) Executive director.--The Foundation shall 
                have an Executive Director who shall be--
                            ``(i) appointed by, and serve at the 
                        direction of, the Board as the chief executive 
                        officer of the Foundation; and
                            ``(ii) knowledgeable and experienced in 
                        matters relating to fish and wildlife 
                        conservation.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 4(a)(1)(B) of the North 
        American Wetlands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4403(a)(1)(B)) is 
        amended by striking ``Secretary of the Board'' and inserting 
        ``Executive Director of the Board''.
    (b) Rights and Obligations of the Foundation.--Section 4 of the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 
3703) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``(c) Powers.--To carry out its 
                purposes under'' and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Powers.--
            ``(1) In general.--To carry out the purposes described 
        in'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (11) as 
                subparagraphs (A) through (K), respectively, and 
                indenting appropriately;
                    (C) in subparagraph (D) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B)), by striking ``that are insured by an 
                agency or instrumentality of the United States'' and 
                inserting ``at 1 or more financial institutions that 
                are members of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation or the Securities Investment Protection 
                Corporation'';
                    (D) in subparagraph (E) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B)), by striking ``paragraph (3) or (4)'' 
                and inserting ``subparagraph (C) or (D)'';
                    (E) in subparagraph (J) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B)), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
                a semicolon;
                    (F) by striking subparagraph (K) (as redesignated 
                by subparagraph (B)) and inserting the following:
                    ``(K) to receive and administer restitution and 
                community service payments, amounts for mitigation of 
                impacts to natural resources, and other amounts arising 
                from legal, regulatory, or administrative proceedings, 
                subject to the condition that the amounts are received 
                or administered for purposes that further the 
                conservation and management of fish, wildlife, plants, 
                and other natural resources; and
                    ``(L) to do acts necessary to carry out the 
                purposes of the Foundation.''; and
                    (G) by striking the undesignated matter at the end 
                and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Treatment of real property.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of this Act, an 
                interest in real property shall be treated as including 
                easements or other rights for preservation, 
                conservation, protection, or enhancement by and for the 
                public of natural, scenic, historic, scientific, 
                educational, inspirational, or recreational resources.
                    ``(B) Encumbered real property.--A gift, devise, or 
                bequest may be accepted by the Foundation even though 
                the gift, devise, or bequest is encumbered, restricted, 
                or subject to beneficial interests of private persons 
                if any current or future interest in the gift, devise, 
                or bequest is for the benefit of the Foundation.
            ``(3) Savings clause.--The acceptance and administration of 
        amounts by the Foundation under paragraph (1)(K) does not 
        alter, supersede, or limit any regulatory or statutory 
        requirement associated with those amounts.'';
            (2) by striking subsections (f) and (g); and
            (3) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections 
        (f) and (g), respectively.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 10 of the National 
Fish and Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3709) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (1) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        to carry out this Act for each of fiscal years 2016 through 
        2020--
                    ``(A) $15,000,000 to the Secretary of the Interior;
                    ``(B) $5,000,000 to the Secretary of Agriculture; 
                and
                    ``(C) $5,000,000 to the Secretary of Commerce.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(1) Amounts from federal agencies.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In addition to the amounts 
                authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), 
                Federal departments, agencies, or instrumentalities may 
                provide Federal funds to the Foundation, subject to the 
                condition that the amounts are used for purposes that 
                further the conservation and management of fish, 
                wildlife, plants, and other natural resources in 
                accordance with this Act.
                    ``(B) Advances.--Federal departments, agencies, or 
                instrumentalities may advance amounts described in 
                subparagraph (A) to the Foundation in a lump sum 
                without regard to when the expenses for which the 
                amounts are used are incurred.
                    ``(C) Management fees.--The Foundation may assess 
                and collect fees for the management of amounts received 
                under this paragraph.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                        ``funds'' and inserting ``amounts'';
                            (ii) by striking ``shall be used'' and 
                        inserting ``may be used''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``and State and local 
                        government agencies'' and inserting ``, State 
                        and local government agencies, and other 
                        entities''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Administration of amounts.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In entering into contracts, 
                agreements, or other partnerships pursuant to this Act, 
                a Federal department, agency, or instrumentality shall 
                have discretion to waive any competitive process 
                applicable to the department, agency, or 
                instrumentality for entering into contracts, 
                agreements, or partnerships with the Foundation if the 
                purpose of the waiver is--
                            ``(i) to address an environmental emergency 
                        resulting from a natural or other disaster; or
                            ``(ii) as determined by the head of the 
                        applicable Federal department, agency, or 
                        instrumentality, to reduce administrative 
                        expenses and expedite the conservation and 
                        management of fish, wildlife, plants, and other 
                        natural resources.
                    ``(B) Reports.--The Foundation shall include in the 
                annual report submitted under section 7(b) a 
                description of any use of the authority under 
                subparagraph (A) by a Federal department, agency, or 
                instrumentality in that fiscal year.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Use of Gifts, Devises, or Bequests of Money or Other 
Property.--Any gifts, devises, or bequests of amounts or other 
property, or any other amounts or other property, transferred to, 
deposited with, or otherwise in the possession of the Foundation 
pursuant to this Act, may be made available by the Foundation to 
Federal departments, agencies, or instrumentalities and may be accepted 
and expended (or the disposition of the amounts or property directed), 
without further appropriation, by those Federal departments, agencies, 
or instrumentalities, subject to the condition that the amounts or 
property be used for purposes that further the conservation and 
management of fish, wildlife, plants, and other natural resources.''.
    (d) Limitation on Authority.--Section 11 of the National Fish and 
Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3710) is amended by 
inserting ``exclusive'' before ``authority''.

SEC. 6. NEOTROPICAL MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION ACT REAUTHORIZATION.

    The Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Act is amended--
            (1) in section 9(c)(2) (16 U.S.C. 6108(c)(2)), by striking 
        ``3'' and inserting ``4''; and
            (2) by amending section 10 (16 U.S.C. 6109) to read as 
        follows:

``SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this Act $6,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2020.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--Of the amounts made available under subsection 
(a) for each fiscal year, not less than 75 percent shall be expended 
for projects carried out at a location outside of the United States.''.

SEC. 7. PARTNERS FOR FISH AND WILDLIFE PROGRAM ACT REAUTHORIZATION.

    Section 5 of the Partners for Fish and Wildlife Act (16 U.S.C. 
3774) is amended by striking ``2011'' and inserting ``2020''.

SEC. 8. MAKING PUBLIC LANDS PUBLIC.

    (a) Availability of Funds.--Section 200303 of title 54, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 200303. Availability of funds for certain projects
    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Secretary 
and the Secretary of Agriculture shall ensure that, of the amounts 
appropriated for the fund for each fiscal year, not less than the 
greater of 1.5 percent of the amounts or $10,000,000 shall be made 
available for projects that secure public access to Federal land for 
hunting, fishing, and other recreational purposes through easements, 
rights-of-way, or fee title acquisitions from willing sellers.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Availability of deposits.--Section 200302(c)(3) of 
        title 54, United States Code, is amended by striking 
        ``Notwithstanding section 200303 of this title, money'' and 
        inserting ``Money''.
            (2) Contracts for acquisition of land and water.--Section 
        200308 of title 54, United States Code, is amended in the first 
        sentence, by striking ``by section 200303 of this title''.
            (3) Contracts for options to acquire land and water in 
        system.--Section 200309 of title 54, United States Code, is 
        amended in the third sentence by striking ``by section 200303 
        of this title''.
                                 <all>
