[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6024 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6024

 To amend title 18, United States Code, to improve safety and security 
 for service weapons used by Federal law enforcement officers, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 14, 2016

Mr. DeSaulnier introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee on Armed 
Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 18, United States Code, to improve safety and security 
 for service weapons used by Federal law enforcement officers, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Law Enforcement and Public 
Protection Act''.

SEC. 2. IMPROVING SAFETY AND SECURITY FOR SERVICE WEAPONS USED BY 
              FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 203 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 3064. Safety and security of service weapons used by Federal law 
              enforcement officers
    ``(a) The head of each civilian or military Federal law enforcement 
agency shall prescribe requirements for the safe locking and storage of 
service firearms when they are not in use, to be followed by each 
Federal law enforcement officer in that agency and each person who 
assists that agency in its law enforcement functions, who carries a 
firearm as a service weapon. The agency shall, subject to the 
availability of appropriations, provide the appropriate equipment 
needed to comply with those requirements to each person to whom that 
agency's requirements prescribed under this subsection apply.
    ``(b) In prescribing the requirements under subsection (a) the head 
of each agency shall adopt the following minimum standards for safe 
storage and locking:
            ``(1) Officers are responsible for the safe storage of 
        their service firearm when not in their personal possession by 
        using smart guns and smart locks, trigger locks, safes, gunlock 
        boxes, or other means approved by the agency.
            ``(2) Service firearms shall not be stored in patrol or 
        personally owned vehicles except for temporary storage when at 
        court, when other options for safekeeping are not available, or 
        if authorized by the agency.
            ``(3) Any violation of the requirements constitutes grounds 
        for discipline, for which the agency shall consider imposing 
        minimum punishment standards.
    ``(c) The head of each Federal civilian or military law enforcement 
agency shall report any loss or theft of a service firearm from that 
agency, any law enforcement officer in that agency, or any person 
assisting such an officer--
            ``(1) to relevant State and local law enforcement agencies; 
        and
            ``(2) to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms and 
        the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in order to facilitate the 
        central availability of information about the prevalence of 
        such loss or theft.
    ``(d) The head of each civilian or military Federal law enforcement 
agency shall take appropriate action to ensure that any person who 
assists that agency in its law enforcement functions and carries a 
firearm in the course of doing so is trained in safe storage and 
locking practices.
    ``(e) The head of each civilian and military Federal law 
enforcement agency shall provide written materials to each Federal law 
enforcement officer in that agency, and each person who assists that 
agency in its law enforcement functions, who carries a firearm as a 
service weapon, about the statistical risks of keeping a firearm at 
home, especially if it is easily accessible.
    ``(f) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
section, including the provision of equipment under subsection (a), 
such sums as may be necessary.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 203 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new item:

``3064. Safety and security of service weapons used by Federal law 
                            enforcement officers.''.
                                 <all>
