[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 70 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                   House Calendar No. 6
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 70

                          [Report No. 114-13]

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 596) to repeal the 
  Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health care-related 
provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 2, 2015

   Mr. Burgess, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 596) to repeal the 
  Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health care-related 
provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 596) to repeal the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health care-related 
provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, 
and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. The amendment printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) 90 minutes of debate equally divided 
among and controlled by the respective chairs and ranking minority 
members of the Committees on Education and the Workforce, Energy and 
Commerce, and Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
                                                   House Calendar No. 6

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. RES. 70

                          [Report No. 114-13]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 596) to repeal the 
  Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health care-related 
provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, 
                        and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            February 2, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
