[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3679 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3679

To provide that the Social Security Administration pay fees associated 
   with obtaining birth certificate or State identification card for 
 purposes of obtaining a replacement social security card for certain 
         victims of domestic violence, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 1, 2015

  Mr. Murphy of Florida (for himself, Mr. Hastings, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. 
Delaney, Mr. Poe of Texas, Ms. Edwards, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Kuster, Mr. 
  Swalwell of California, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Schiff, Ms. Jackson Lee, 
 Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, and Ms. Moore) introduced the following 
      bill; which was referred to the Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide that the Social Security Administration pay fees associated 
   with obtaining birth certificate or State identification card for 
 purposes of obtaining a replacement social security card for certain 
         victims of domestic violence, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. RESPONSIBILITY OF SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION TO PAY FEES 
              ASSOCIATED WITH OBTAINING BIRTH CERTIFICATE OR STATE 
              IDENTIFICATION CARD FOR PURPOSES OF OBTAINING A 
              REPLACEMENT SOCIAL SECURITY CARD FOR CERTAIN VICTIMS OF 
              DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 205(c)(2)(G) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 405(c)(2)(G)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(i)'' before ``The Commissioner''; and
            (2) by adding after and below the end the following new 
        clause:
    ``(ii)(I) In the case of a person described in subclause (II) who 
has submitted to the Commissioner an application to replace a social 
security card issued to the person, the Commissioner shall pay, upon 
request by the person, any fees charged by any governmental authority 
for furnishing the person with any of the following documents required 
to be submitted as part of the application:
            ``(aa) A birth certificate of the person.
            ``(bb) An identification card issued to the person by a 
        State, that shows that the person is a resident of the State.
    ``(II) A person described in this subclause is a person who is 
verified by the staff of a victim service program, an attorney, a 
medical professional, or a mental health professional from whom the 
person has sought assistance relating to domestic violence, dating 
violence, family violence, sexual assault, or stalking (or the effects 
of such abuse) to be a victim of domestic violence, dating violence, 
family violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
    ``(III) The provision by a person described in subclause (I) of 
authorization to release information about the person, and the 
provision of information pursuant to the authorization, shall not be 
construed to be a waiver of any privilege of the person, under Federal 
or State law, relating to the confidentiality of communications between 
a domestic violence victim and an advocate of such a victim.
    ``(IV) In this clause--
            ``(aa) the terms `domestic violence', `dating violence', 
        `sexual assault', and `stalking' each have the meanings given 
        such terms in section 40002(a) of the Violence Against Women 
        Act of 1994; and
            ``(bb) the term `family violence' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 302 of the Family Violence Prevention and 
        Services Act.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to applications submitted after the 90-day period that begins 
with the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
