[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4583 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4583

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
     To promote a 21st century energy and manufacturing workforce.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ENERGY AND MANUFACTURING WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy (in this Act referred to 
as the ``Secretary'') shall prioritize education and training for 
energy and manufacturing-related jobs in order to increase the number 
of skilled workers trained to work in energy and manufacturing-related 
fields when considering awards for existing grant programs, including 
by--
            (1) encouraging State education agencies and local 
        educational agencies to equip students with the skills, 
        mentorships, training, and technical expertise necessary to 
        fill the employment opportunities vital to managing and 
        operating the Nation's energy and manufacturing industries, in 
        collaboration with representatives from the energy and 
        manufacturing industries (including the oil, gas, coal, 
        nuclear, utility, pipeline, renewable, petrochemical, 
        manufacturing, and electrical construction sectors) to identify 
        the areas of highest need in each sector and the skills 
        necessary for a high quality workforce in the following sectors 
        of energy and manufacturing:
                    (A) Energy efficiency industry, including work in 
                energy efficiency, conservation, weatherization, or 
                retrofitting, or as inspectors or auditors.
                    (B) Pipeline industry, including work in pipeline 
                construction and maintenance or work as engineers or 
                technical advisors.
                    (C) Utility industry, including work in the 
                generation, transmission, and distribution of 
                electricity and natural gas, such as utility 
                technicians, operators, lineworkers, engineers, 
                scientists, and information technology specialists.
                    (D) Nuclear industry, including work as scientists, 
                engineers, technicians, mathematicians, or security 
                personnel.
                    (E) Oil and gas industry, including work as 
                scientists, engineers, technicians, mathematicians, 
                petrochemical engineers, or geologists.
                    (F) Renewable industry, including work in the 
                development, manufacturing, and production of renewable 
                energy sources (such as solar, hydropower, wind, or 
                geothermal energy).
                    (G) Coal industry, including work as coal miners, 
                engineers, developers and manufacturers of state-of-
                the-art coal facilities, technology vendors, coal 
                transportation workers and operators, or mining 
                equipment vendors.
                    (H) Manufacturing industry, including work as 
                operations technicians, operations and design in 
                additive manufacturing, 3-D printing, advanced 
                composites, and advanced aluminum and other metal 
                alloys, industrial energy efficiency management 
                systems, including power electronics, and other 
                innovative technologies.
                    (I) Chemical manufacturing industry, including work 
                in construction (such as welders, pipefitters, and tool 
                and die makers) or as instrument and electrical 
                technicians, machinists, chemical process operators, 
                chemical engineers, quality and safety professionals, 
                and reliability engineers; and
            (2) strengthening and more fully engaging Department of 
        Energy programs and labs in carrying out the Department's 
        workforce development initiatives including the Minorities in 
        Energy Initiative.
    (b) Prohibition.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
authorize the Secretary or any other officer or employee of the Federal 
Government to incentivize, require, or coerce a State, school district, 
or school to adopt curricula aligned to the skills described in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Priority.--The Secretary shall prioritize the education and 
training of underrepresented groups in energy and manufacturing-related 
jobs.
    (d) Clearinghouse.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
shall establish a clearinghouse to--
            (1) maintain and update information and resources on 
        training and workforce development programs for energy and 
        manufacturing-related jobs, including job training and 
        workforce development programs available to assist displaced 
        and unemployed energy and manufacturing workers transitioning 
        to new employment; and
            (2) provide technical assistance for States, local 
        educational agencies, schools, community colleges, universities 
        (including minority serving institutions), workforce 
        development programs, labor-management organizations, and 
        industry organizations that would like to develop and implement 
        energy and manufacturing-related training programs.
    (e) Collaboration.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary--
            (1) shall collaborate with States, local educational 
        agencies, schools, community colleges, universities (including 
        minority serving institutions), workforce-training 
        organizations, national laboratories, State energy offices, 
        workforce investment boards, and the energy and manufacturing 
        industries;
            (2) shall encourage and foster collaboration, mentorships, 
        and partnerships among organizations (including industry, 
        States, local educational agencies, schools, community 
        colleges, workforce-development organizations, and colleges and 
        universities) that currently provide effective job training 
        programs in the energy and manufacturing fields and entities 
        (including States, local educational agencies, schools, 
        community colleges, workforce development programs, and 
        colleges and universities) that seek to establish these types 
        of programs in order to share best practices; and
            (3) shall collaborate with the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
        the Department of Commerce, the Bureau of the Census, States, 
        and the energy and manufacturing industries to develop a 
        comprehensive and detailed understanding of the energy and 
        manufacturing workforce needs and opportunities by State and by 
        region.
    (f) Outreach to Minority Serving Institutions.--In carrying out 
this section, the Secretary shall--
            (1) give special consideration to increasing outreach to 
        minority serving institutions and Historically Black Colleges 
        and Universities;
            (2) make existing resources available through program 
        cross-cutting to minority serving institutions with the 
        objective of increasing the number of skilled minorities and 
        women trained to go into the energy and manufacturing sectors;
            (3) encourage industry to improve the opportunities for 
        students of minority serving institutions to participate in 
        industry internships and cooperative work/study programs; and
            (4) partner with the Department of Energy laboratories to 
        increase underrepresented groups' participation in internships, 
        fellowships, traineeships, and employment at all Department of 
        Energy laboratories.
    (g) Outreach to Dislocated Energy and Manufacturing Workers.--In 
carrying out this section, the Secretary shall--
            (1) give special consideration to increasing outreach to 
        employers and job trainers preparing dislocated energy and 
        manufacturing workers for in-demand sectors or occupations;
            (2) make existing resources available through program 
        cross-cutting to institutions serving dislocated energy and 
        manufacturing workers with the objective of training 
        individuals to re-enter in-demand sectors or occupations;
            (3) encourage the energy and manufacturing industries to 
        improve opportunities for dislocated energy and manufacturing 
        workers to participate in career pathways; and
            (4) work closely with the energy and manufacturing 
        industries to identify energy and manufacturing operations, 
        such as coal-fired power plants and coal mines, scheduled for 
        closure and to provide early intervention assistance to workers 
        employed at such energy and manufacturing operations by--
                    (A) partnering with State and local workforce 
                development boards;
                    (B) giving special consideration to employers and 
                job trainers preparing such workers for in-demand 
                sectors or occupations;
                    (C) making existing resources available through 
                program cross-cutting to institutions serving such 
                workers with the objective of training them to re-enter 
                in-demand sectors or occupations; and
                    (D) encouraging the energy and manufacturing 
                industries to improve opportunities for such workers to 
                participate in career pathways.
    (h) Enrollment in Workforce Development Programs.--In carrying out 
this section, the Secretary shall work with industry and community-
based workforce organizations to help identify candidates, including 
from underrepresented communities such as minorities, women, and 
veterans, to enroll in workforce development programs for energy and 
manufacturing-related jobs.
    (i) Prohibition.--Nothing in this section shall be construed as 
authorizing the creation of a new workforce development program.
    (j) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Career pathways; dislocated worker; in-demand sectors 
        or occupations; local workforce development board; state 
        workforce development board.--The terms ``career pathways'', 
        ``dislocated worker'', ``in-demand sectors or occupations'', 
        ``local workforce development board'', and ``State workforce 
        development board'' have the meanings given the terms ``career 
        pathways'', ``dislocated worker'', ``in-demand sectors or 
        occupations'', ``local board'', and ``State board'', 
        respectively, in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
            (2) Minority-serving institution.--The term ``minority-
        serving institution'' means an institution of higher education 
        with a designation of one of the following:
                    (A) Hispanic-serving institution (as defined in 20 
                U.S.C.1101a(a)(5)).
                    (B) Tribal College or University (as defined in 20 
                U.S.C.1059c(b)).
                    (C) Alaska Native-serving institution or a Native 
                Hawaiian-serving institution (as defined in 20 
                U.S.C.1059d(b)).
                    (D) Predominantly Black Institution (as defined in 
                20 U.S.C.1059e(b)).
                    (E) Native American-serving nontribal institution 
                (as defined in 20 U.S.C.1059f(b)).
                    (F) Asian American and Native American Pacific 
                Islander-serving institution (as defined in 20 
                U.S.C.1059g(b)).

SEC. 2. REPORT.

    Five years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall publish a comprehensive report to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce and the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate Energy and Natural Resources 
Committee on the outlook for energy and manufacturing sectors 
nationally. The report shall also include a comprehensive summary of 
energy and manufacturing job creation as a result of the enactment of 
this Act. The report shall include performance data regarding the 
number of program participants served, the percentage of participants 
in competitive integrated employment two quarters and four quarters 
after program completion, the median income of program participants two 
quarters and four quarters after program completion, and the percentage 
of program participants receiving industry-recognized credentials.

SEC. 3. USE OF EXISTING FUNDS.

    No additional funds are authorized to carry out the requirements of 
this Act. Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts 
otherwise authorized.

            Passed the House of Representatives February 29, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4583

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

     To promote a 21st century energy and manufacturing workforce.
