[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4407 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4407

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
    To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish in the 
  Department of Homeland Security a board to coordinate and integrate 
     departmental intelligence, activities, and policy related to 
               counterterrorism, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act 
of 2016''.

SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY COUNTERTERRORISM ADVISORY 
              BOARD.

    (a) In General.--At the end of subtitle A of title II of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.) insert the 
following new section:

``SEC. 210G. DEPARTMENTAL COORDINATION ON COUNTERTERRORISM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is in the Department a board to be 
composed of senior representatives of departmental operational 
components and headquarters elements. The purpose of the board shall be 
to coordinate and integrate departmental intelligence, activities, and 
policy related to the counterterrorism mission and functions of the 
Department.
    ``(b) Charter.--There shall be a charter to govern the structure 
and mission of the board. Such charter shall direct the board to focus 
on the current threat environment and the importance of aligning 
departmental counterterrorism activities under the Secretary's 
guidance. The charter shall be reviewed and updated every four years, 
as appropriate.
    ``(c) Members.--
            ``(1) Chair.--The Secretary shall appoint a Coordinator for 
        Counterterrorism within the Department who will serve as the 
        chair of the board.
            ``(2) Additional members.--The Secretary shall appoint 
        additional members of the board from among the following:
                    ``(A) The Transportation Security Administration.
                    ``(B) United States Customs and Border Protection.
                    ``(C) United States Immigration and Customs 
                Enforcement.
                    ``(D) The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
                    ``(E) The Coast Guard.
                    ``(F) United States Citizenship and Immigration 
                Services.
                    ``(G) The United States Secret Service.
                    ``(H) The National Protection and Programs 
                Directorate.
                    ``(I) The Office of Operations Coordination.
                    ``(J) The Office of the General Counsel.
                    ``(K) The Office of Intelligence and Analysis.
                    ``(L) The Office of Policy.
                    ``(M) The Science and Technology Directorate.
                    ``(N) Other Departmental offices and programs as 
                determined appropriate by the Secretary.
    ``(d) Meetings.--The board shall meet on a regular basis to discuss 
intelligence and coordinate ongoing threat mitigation efforts and 
departmental activities, including coordination with other Federal, 
State, local, tribal, territorial, and private sector partners, and 
shall make recommendations to the Secretary.
    ``(e) Terrorism Alerts.--The board shall advise the Secretary on 
the issuance of terrorism alerts pursuant to section 203 of this Act.
    ``(f) Prohibition on Additional Funds.--No additional funds are 
authorized to carry out this section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
210F the following new item:

``Sec. 210G. Departmental coordination on counterterrorism.''.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary, acting through the Coordinator for 
Counterterrorism, shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the status and 
activities of the board established under section 210G of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, as added by subsection (a).

            Passed the House of Representatives May 16, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4407

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

    To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish in the 
  Department of Homeland Security a board to coordinate and integrate 
     departmental intelligence, activities, and policy related to 
               counterterrorism, and for other purposes.
