[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4298 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4298

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To direct the Secretary of the Army to place in Arlington National 
Cemetery a memorial honoring the helicopter pilots and crew members of 
                the Vietnam era, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Vietnam Helicopter Crew Memorial 
Act''.

SEC. 2. PLACEMENT OF MEMORIAL HONORING HELICOPTER PILOTS DURING THE 
              VIETNAM WAR.

    (a) In General.--Subject to the requirements of section (c), the 
Secretary of the Army shall place in Arlington National Cemetery a 
memorial honoring helicopter pilots and crew members who served on 
active duty in the Armed Forces during the Vietnam era.
    (b) Design.--The memorial placed under subsection (a) shall measure 
4 feet in height, 5 feet in width, and 1 foot in depth, and shall be 
based on a design approved by the Secretary of the Army and the Vietnam 
Helicopter Pilots Association.
    (c) Agreement for Upkeep and Maintenance.--The Secretary of the 
Army may only place a memorial under subsection (a) if the Secretary 
enters into an agreement with the Vietnam Helicopter Pilots Association 
under which the Association agrees to pay all costs necessary to 
construct, install, and maintain the memorial, and to such other 
provisions as the Secretary may require.
    (d) Approval of Site.--The Secretary of the Army shall approve an 
appropriate site within Arlington National Cemetery for the memorial 
under subsection (a) to be placed.
    (e) Waiver of Environmental Assessment.--Section 102 of the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332) shall not 
apply with respect to the memorial placed under subsection (a).

            Passed the House of Representatives December 7, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4298

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  To direct the Secretary of the Army to place in Arlington National 
Cemetery a memorial honoring the helicopter pilots and crew members of 
                the Vietnam era, and for other purposes.
