[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 834 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 162
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 834

                          [Report No. 114-91]

 To amend the law relating to sport fish restoration and recreational 
                boating safety, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 23, 2015

    Mr. Thune (for himself, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Nelson, and Mr. Cardin) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
           Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

                             July 23, 2015

                Reported by Mr. Thune, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the law relating to sport fish restoration and recreational 
                boating safety, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Sport Fish Restoration and 
Recreational Boating Safety Act''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 3 of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration 
Act (16 U.S.C. 777b) is amended by striking ``57 percent'' and 
inserting ``57.42 percent''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 3. DIVISION OF ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 4 of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration 
Act (16 U.S.C. 777c) is amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in subsection (a)--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                by striking ``2014 and for the period beginning on 
                October 1, 2014, and ending on May 31, 2015,'' and 
                inserting ``2023,'';</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``18.5 
                percent'' and inserting ``18.54 percent'';</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``18.5 
                percent'' and inserting ``18.04 percent''; 
                and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (D) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end 
                ``Not more than 25 percent of such amount may be used 
                for capital improvement and infrastructure projects to 
                support facilities that meet state requires for 
                minimizing the introduction of pollutants into the 
                waterways.'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) by amending the heading in subsection (b) to 
        read as follows: ``Set-Asides.--'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) in subsection (b)(1)--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                ``2014, and for the period beginning on October 1, 
                2014, and ending on May 31, 2015,'' and inserting 
                ``2023,'';</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking 
                clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), and inserting the 
                following:</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    ``(i) for each of the fiscal years 
                        2016 through 2022, 1.8468 percent of total 
                        annual collections under this Act for such 
                        fiscal year; and</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    ``(ii) not withstanding clause 
                        (i), an amount that is less than or equal to 
                        $12,299,000.''; and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) by adding at the end the 
                following:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    ``(C) Set-aside for boating safety.--
                </DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    ``(i) In general.--From the annual 
                        appropriation made in accordance with section 
                        3, for each fiscal year through 2023, the 
                        Secretary shall transfer to the Secretary of 
                        the department in which the Coast Guard is 
                        operating--</DELETED>
                                <DELETED>    ``(I)(aa) 0.34325 percent 
                                of total annual collections under this 
                                Act for the purposes set forth in 
                                section 13107(c) of title 46, United 
                                States Code; and</DELETED>
                                <DELETED>    ``(bb) notwithstanding 
                                item (aa), an amount that is less than 
                                or equal to $2,300,000;</DELETED>
                                <DELETED>    ``(II) not less than 
                                $5,500,000 for national boating safety 
                                activities of national nonprofit public 
                                service organizations, including the 
                                funding of National Boating Safety 
                                Advisory Council established under 
                                section 13110 of title 46, United 
                                States Code, and the authorized 
                                activities of the Council, including 
                                travel for the council; and</DELETED>
                                <DELETED>    ``(III) $1,500,000 shall 
                                be made available for the National 
                                Recreational Boating Survey.</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    ``(ii) Limitation.--The amounts 
                        specified in clause (i) for a fiscal year may 
                        not be included in the amount of the annual 
                        appropriation distributed under subsection (a) 
                        of this section for the fiscal 
                        year.'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) in subsection (b)(2)--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                ``under paragraph (1) shall remain available for 
                obligation for use under that paragraph'' and inserting 
                ``under paragraph (1)(B) shall remain available for 
                obligation for use under paragraph (1)(A)''; 
                and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) in subparagraph (B)--</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (i) by striking ``under paragraph 
                        (1)'' and inserting ``under paragraph (1)(B)''; 
                        and</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    (ii) by striking ``subsection 
                        (e)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                        (c)'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) in subsection (c), by striking ``57 percent'' 
        and inserting ``57.42 percent'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (6) in subsection (d), by striking ``So much of 
        any sum not allocated'' and inserting ``Except as otherwise 
        provided in this section, so much of any sum not allocated''; 
        and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (7) in subsection (e)--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``those 
                subsections'' and inserting ``those 
                paragraphs'';</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as 
                follows:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(2) Maximum amount.--For fiscal year 2016, the 
        Secretary of the Interior may use not more than $1,200,000 in 
        accordance with paragraph (1). For each fiscal year thereafter, 
        the maximum amount that the Secretary of the Interior may use 
        in accordance with paragraph (1) shall be determined under 
        paragraph (3).''; and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) by adding at the end the 
                following:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(3) Annual adjusted maximum amount.--The maximum 
        amount referred to in paragraph (2) for fiscal year 2016 and 
        each fiscal year thereafter shall be the sum of--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    ``(A) the available maximum amount for the 
                preceding fiscal year; and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    ``(B) the amount determined by 
                multiplying--</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    ``(i) the available maximum amount 
                        for the preceding fiscal year; and</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    ``(ii) the change, relative to the 
                        preceding fiscal year, in the Consumer Price 
                        Index for All Urban Consumers published by the 
                        Department of Labor.''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF EXCEPTION TO LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS TO 
              FUND.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 9504(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is 
amended by striking ``2015,'' and inserting ``2023,''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 5. RECREATIONAL BOATING SAFETY ALLOCATIONS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 13104 of title 46, United States Code, is amended 
by striking subsection (c).</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 6. RECREATIONAL BOATING SAFETY.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 13107(c) of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in paragraph (1)--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) by striking ``subsection (a)(2)'' and 
                inserting ``subsection (b)(1)(C)''; and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) by striking ``(16 U.S.C. 777c(a)(2))'' 
                and all that follows through the end and inserting 
                ``(16 U.S.C. 777c(b)(1)(C))--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    ``(A)(i) 0.34325 percent of total annual 
                collections under this Act is available to the 
                Secretary for payment of expenses of the Coast Guard 
                for personnel and activities directly related to 
                coordinating and carrying out the national recreational 
                boating safety program under this title; and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    ``(ii) notwithstanding clause (i), the 
                amount referred to in (i) may not exceed $2,300,000; 
                and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    ``(B) not less than $5,500,000 is 
                available for national boating safety activities of 
                national nonprofit public service organizations, 
                including the funding of National Boating Safety 
                Advisory Council established under section 13110 of 
                title 46, United States Code, and the authorized 
                activities of the Council, including travel for the 
                council.''; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Amounts made 
        available'' and inserting ``Except for amounts made available 
        by paragraph (1)(B), amounts made available''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 7. NATIONAL BOATING SAFETY ADVISORY COUNCIL.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 13110(e) of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2023''.</DELETED>

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sport Fish Restoration and 
Recreational Boating Safety Act''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 3 of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act (16 
U.S.C. 777b) is amended by striking ``57 percent'' and inserting 
``57.42 percent''.

SEC. 3. DIVISION OF ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 4 of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777c) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``2014 and for the period beginning on October 
                1, 2014, and ending on May 31, 2015,'' and inserting 
                ``2023,'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``18.5 percent'' 
                and inserting ``18.54 percent'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``18.5 percent'' 
                and inserting ``18.04 percent''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end ``Not 
                more than 25 percent of such amount may be used for 
                capital improvement and infrastructure projects to 
                support facilities that meet State requirements for 
                minimizing the introduction of pollutants into the 
                waterways.'';
            (2) by amending the heading in subsection (b) to read as 
        follows: ``Set-asides.--'';
            (3) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``2014, and 
                for the period beginning on October 1, 2014, and ending 
                on May 31, 2015,'' and inserting ``2023,'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking clauses (i), 
                (ii), and (iii), and inserting the following:
                            ``(i) for each of the fiscal years 2016 
                        through 2023, 1.8468 percent of total annual 
                        collections under this Act for such fiscal 
                        year; and
                            ``(ii) not withstanding clause (i), an 
                        amount that is less than or equal to 
                        $12,299,000.''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Set-aside for boating safety.--
                            ``(i) In general.--From the annual 
                        appropriation made in accordance with section 
                        3, for each fiscal year through 2023, the 
                        Secretary shall transfer to the Secretary of 
                        the department in which the Coast Guard is 
                        operating--
                                    ``(I)(aa) 0.3435 percent of total 
                                annual collections under this Act to 
                                pay the costs of investigations, 
                                personnel, and activities related to 
                                administering those programs under 
                                section 4(a)(2) (16 U.S.C. 777c(a)(2)); 
                                and
                                    ``(bb) notwithstanding item (aa), 
                                an amount that is less than or equal to 
                                $2,300,000; and
                                    ``(II) $1,500,000 shall be made 
                                available for the National Recreational 
                                Boating Survey, that shall be available 
                                until expended and may be awarded as a 
                                contract or grant by the Secretary.
                            ``(ii) Limitation.--The amounts specified 
                        in clause (i) for a fiscal year may not be 
                        included in the amount of the annual 
                        appropriation distributed under subsection (a) 
                        of this section for the fiscal year.'';
            (4) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``under 
                paragraph (1) shall remain available for obligation for 
                use under that paragraph'' and inserting ``under 
                paragraph (1)(B) shall remain available for obligation 
                for use under paragraph (1)(A)''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``under paragraph (1)'' and 
                        inserting ``under paragraph (1)(B)''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``subsection (e)'' and 
                        inserting ``subsection (c)'';
            (5) in subsection (c), by striking ``57 percent'' and 
        inserting ``57.42 percent'';
            (6) in subsection (d), by striking ``So much of any sum not 
        allocated'' and inserting ``Except as otherwise provided in 
        this section, so much of any sum not allocated''; and
            (7) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``those 
                subsections'' and inserting ``those paragraphs'';
                    (B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Maximum amount.--For fiscal year 2016, the Secretary 
        of the Interior may use not more than $1,200,000 in accordance 
        with paragraph (1). For each fiscal year thereafter, the 
        maximum amount that the Secretary of the Interior may use in 
        accordance with paragraph (1) shall be determined under 
        paragraph (3).''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Annual adjusted maximum amount.--The maximum amount 
        referred to in paragraph (2) for fiscal year 2016 and each 
        fiscal year thereafter shall be the sum of--
                    ``(A) the available maximum amount for the 
                preceding fiscal year; and
                    ``(B) the amount determined by multiplying--
                            ``(i) the available maximum amount for the 
                        preceding fiscal year; and
                            ``(ii) the change, relative to the 
                        preceding fiscal year, in the Consumer Price 
                        Index for All Urban Consumers published by the 
                        Department of Labor.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 9 of the Dingell-Johnson Sport 
Fish Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 777h) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``section 4(b)'' and 
        inserting ``section 4(b)(1)(B)''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``section 4(b)'' and 
        inserting ``section 4(b)(1)(B)''.

SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF EXCEPTION TO LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS TO FUND.

    Section 9504(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended 
by striking ``June 1, 2015,'' and inserting ``October 1, 2023,''.

SEC. 5. RECREATIONAL BOATING SAFETY ALLOCATIONS.

    Section 13104 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subsection (c).

SEC. 6. RECREATIONAL BOATING SAFETY.

    Section 13107 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``(1) Subject to 
                paragraph (2) and subsection (c),'' and inserting 
                ``Subject to subsection (c),''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``title,'' and all 
        that follows through the end and inserting ``title--
                    ``(A) including the funding of the National Boating 
                Safety Advisory Council established under section 13110 
                of this title and the authorized activities of the 
                Council, including travel for the council; and
                    ``(B) of the funds referred to in paragraph (1), 
                not less than $2,500,000 shall be available to the 
                Secretary only to ensure compliance with chapter 43 of 
                this title.''.

SEC. 7. NATIONAL BOATING SAFETY ADVISORY COUNCIL.

    Section 13110(e) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2023''.

SEC. 8. PLAN EVALUATION.

    Section 303(b)(7) of the Coastal Wetlands Planning, Protection and 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 3952(b)(7)) is amended by inserting ``and 
improvements made to the quality of fish and wildlife habitat 
conditions'' after ``enhancing coastal wetlands''.

SEC. 9. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall 
annually evaluate and report on the administrative services of such 
Service for the trust fund to the States and the sportfishing 
community, including the following categories of information:
            (1) The percent of grant actions completed within 45 days 
        of receipt, average number of days to process new grants, and 
        average number of days to process grant amendments.
            (2) Which wildlife and sport fish restoration policies are 
        currently being updated, the start time for each update, and 
        the anticipated completion time.
            (3) The number of Federal assistance workshops held with 
        States and such Service in efforts to communicate fiscal 
        policies and procedures with the State agencies.
            (4) The response time to States based on initial 
        notification or assistance requests initiated by a State.
            (5) The number of States with unresolved reconciliation of 
        land records and number of corrective action plans with open 
        actions.
            (6) The number of employees of such Service with grants 
        management training and outstanding training requirements and 
        the percent of State fish and wildlife staff to have received 
        training from Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Fund Program 
        of such Service.
            (7) The number of full-time equivalents contributing to 
        grant processing and related grant management in each region.
            (8) The number of in-field state project reviews and site 
        visits by the Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Fund Program.
            (9) The number of audits per year originating from such 
        Service and response time to related actions and 
        correspondence.
                                                       Calendar No. 162

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 834

                          [Report No. 114-91]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To amend the law relating to sport fish restoration and recreational 
                boating safety, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 23, 2015

                       Reported with an amendment
