[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3393 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3393

   To prevent terrorists and criminals from obtaining explosives and 
                               firearms.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 26, 2016

   Mr. Leahy introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To prevent terrorists and criminals from obtaining explosives and 
                               firearms.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``No Explosives or Arms for Terrorists 
and Criminals Act''.

SEC. 2. PREVENTING TERRORISTS AND CRIMINALS FROM OBTAINING EXPLOSIVES 
              AND FIREARMS.

    (a) Firearms.--Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by striking subsection (h) and inserting the following:
    ``(h) Whoever knowingly receives or transfers a firearm, or 
attempts or conspires to do so, knowing or having reasonable cause to 
believe that such firearm will be used to commit a Federal crime of 
terrorism (as defined in section 2332b(g)(5)), crime of violence (as 
defined in subsection (c)(3)), or drug trafficking crime (as defined in 
subsection (c)(2)) shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for not 
more than 15 years, or both.''.
    (b) Explosives.--Section 844 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(q) A person who attempts to commit any offense described in 
subsection (o) or (r) shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for 
not more than 10 years, or both.
    ``(r)(1) Whoever knowingly transfers any explosives precursor, 
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that such explosives 
precursor will be used to commit a crime of violence (as defined in 
section 924(c)(3)) or drug trafficking crime (as defined in section 
924(c)(2)) shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for not more 
than 10 years, or both.
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection the term `explosives 
precursor' means a chemical substance which can be made into an 
explosive material by mixing or blending with other substances.''.
                                 <all>
