[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 514 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 514

    To amend the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to 
              establish the Promise Neighborhoods program.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 12, 2015

 Mr. Murphy (for himself, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Brown, Mr. Franken, and Mr. 
  Blumenthal) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
  referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To amend the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to 
              establish the Promise Neighborhoods program.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Promise Neighborhoods Authorization 
Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. PROMISE NEIGHBORHOODS.

    Title IV of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

                    ``PART D--PROMISE NEIGHBORHOODS

``SEC. 4401. SHORT TITLE.

    ``This part may be cited as the `Promise Neighborhoods Act of 
2015'.

``SEC. 4402. PURPOSE.

    ``The purpose of this part is to significantly improve the academic 
and developmental outcomes of children living in our Nation's most 
distressed communities from birth through college and career entry, 
including ensuring school readiness, high school graduation, and 
college and career readiness for such children, through the use of 
data-driven decisionmaking and access to a community-based continuum of 
high-quality services, beginning at birth.

``SEC. 4403. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this part:
            ``(1) Child.--The term `child' means an individual from 
        birth through age 21.
            ``(2) College and career readiness.--The term `college and 
        career readiness' means the level of preparation a student 
        needs in order to meet the State academic content and 
        achievement standards under section 1111(b)(1).
            ``(3) Community of practice.--The term `community of 
        practice' means a group of entities that interact regularly to 
        share best practices to address 1 or more persistent problems, 
        or improve practice with respect to such problems, in 1 or more 
        neighborhoods.
            ``(4) Comprehensive school readiness assessment.--The term 
        `comprehensive school readiness assessment' means an objective 
        tool that--
                    ``(A) screens for school readiness across domains, 
                including language, cognitive, physical, motor, 
                sensory, and social-emotional domains, and through a 
                developmental screening; and
                    ``(B) may also include other sources of 
                information, such as child observations by parents and 
                others, verbal and written reports, child work samples 
                (for children aged 3 to 5), and health and 
                developmental histories.
            ``(5) Developmental screening.--The term `developmental 
        screening' means the use of a standardized tool to identify a 
        child who may be at risk of a developmental delay or disorder.
            ``(6) Expanded learning time.--The term `expanded learning 
        time' means the activities and programs described in 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 4201(b)(1).
            ``(7) Family and community engagement.--The term `family 
        and community engagement' means the process of engaging family 
        and community members in education meaningfully and at all 
        stages of the planning, implementation, and school and 
        neighborhood improvement process, including, at a minimum--
                    ``(A) disseminating a clear definition of the 
                neighborhood to the members of the neighborhood;
                    ``(B) ensuring representative participation by the 
                members of such neighborhood in the planning and 
                implementation of the activities of each grant awarded 
                under this part;
                    ``(C) regular engagement by the eligible entity and 
                the partners of the eligible entity with family members 
                and community partners;
                    ``(D) the provision of strategies and practices to 
                assist family and community members in actively 
                supporting student achievement and child development; 
                and
                    ``(E) collaboration with institutions of higher 
                education, workforce development centers, and employers 
                to align expectations and programming with college and 
                career readiness.
            ``(8) Family and student supports.--The term `family and 
        student supports' includes--
                    ``(A) health programs (including both mental health 
                and physical health services);
                    ``(B) school, public, and child-safety programs;
                    ``(C) programs that improve family stability;
                    ``(D) workforce development programs (including 
                those that meet local business needs, such as 
                internships and externships);
                    ``(E) social service programs;
                    ``(F) legal aid programs;
                    ``(G) financial literacy education programs;
                    ``(H) adult education and family literacy programs;
                    ``(I) parent, family, and community engagement 
                programs; and
                    ``(J) programs that increase access to learning 
                technology and enhance the digital literacy skills of 
                students.
            ``(9) Family member.--The term `family member' means a 
        parent, relative, or other adult who is responsible for the 
        education, care, and well-being of a child.
            ``(10) Integrated student supports.--The term `integrated 
        student supports' means wraparound services, supports, and 
        community resources, which shall be offered through a site 
        coordinator for at-risk students, that have been shown by 
        evidence-based research--
                    ``(A) to increase academic achievement and 
                engagement;
                    ``(B) to support positive child development; and
                    ``(C) to increase student preparedness for success 
                in college and the workforce.
            ``(11) Neighborhood.--The term `neighborhood' means a 
        defined geographical area in which there are multiple signs of 
        distress, demonstrated by indicators of need, including 
        poverty, childhood obesity rates, academic failure, and rates 
        of juvenile delinquency, adjudication, or incarceration.
            ``(12) Pipeline services.--The term `pipeline services' 
        means a continuum of supports and services for children from 
        birth through college entry, college success, and career 
        attainment, including, at a minimum, strategies to address 
        through services or programs (including integrated student 
        supports) the following:
                    ``(A) Prenatal education and support for expectant 
                parents.
                    ``(B) High-quality early learning opportunities.
                    ``(C) High-quality schools and out-of-school-time 
                programs and strategies.
                    ``(D) Support for a child's transition to 
                elementary school, including the administration of a 
                comprehensive school readiness assessment.
                    ``(E) Support for a child's transition from 
                elementary school to middle school, from middle school 
                to high school, and from high school into and through 
                college and into the workforce.
                    ``(F) Family and community engagement.
                    ``(G) Family and student supports.
                    ``(H) Activities that support college and career 
                readiness, including coordination between such 
                activities, such as--
                            ``(i) assistance with college admissions, 
                        financial aid, and scholarship applications, 
                        especially for low-income and low-achieving 
                        students; and
                            ``(ii) career preparation services and 
                        supports.
                    ``(I) Neighborhood-based support for college-age 
                students who have attended the schools in the pipeline, 
                or students who are members of the community, 
                facilitating their continued connection to the 
                community and success in college and the workforce.

          ``Subpart 1--Promise Neighborhood Partnership Grants

``SEC. 4411. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Program authorized.--From amounts appropriated to 
        carry out this subpart, the Secretary shall award grants, on a 
        competitive basis, to eligible entities to implement a 
        comprehensive, evidence-based continuum of coordinated services 
        and supports that engages community partners to improve 
        academic achievement, student development, and college and 
        career readiness, measured by common outcomes, by carrying out 
        the activities described in section 4414 in neighborhoods with 
        high concentrations of low-income individuals and persistently 
        low-achieving schools or schools with an achievement gap.
            ``(2) Sufficient size and scope.--Each grant awarded under 
        this subpart shall be of sufficient size and scope to allow the 
        eligible entity to carry out the purpose of this part.
    ``(b) Duration.--A grant awarded under this subpart shall be for a 
period of not more than 5 years.
    ``(c) Continued Funding.--Continued funding of a grant under this 
subpart, including a grant renewed under subsection (b)(2), after the 
third year of the grant period shall be contingent on the eligible 
entity's progress toward meeting the performance metrics described in 
section 4416(a).
    ``(d) Matching Requirement.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each eligible entity receiving a grant 
        under this subpart shall contribute matching funds in an amount 
        equal to not less than 100 percent of the amount of the grant. 
        Such matching funds shall come from Federal, State, local, and 
        private sources.
            ``(2) Private sources.--The Secretary--
                    ``(A) shall require that a portion of the matching 
                funds come from private sources; and
                    ``(B) may allow the use of in-kind donations to 
                satisfy the matching funds requirement.
            ``(3) Adjustment.--The Secretary may adjust the matching 
        funds requirement for applicants that demonstrate high need, 
        including applicants from rural areas or applicant that wish to 
        provide services on tribal lands.
    ``(e) Financial Hardship Waiver.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may waive or reduce, on a 
        case-by-case basis, the matching requirement described in 
        subsection (d), for a period of 1 year at a time, if the 
        eligible entity demonstrates significant financial hardship.
            ``(2) Private sources waiver.--The Secretary may waive or 
        reduce, on a case-by-case basis, the requirement described in 
        subsection (d) that a portion of matching funds come from 
        private sources if the eligible entity demonstrates an 
        inability to access such funds in the State.

``SEC. 4412. ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.

    ``In this subpart, the term `eligible entity' means--
            ``(1) an institution of higher education, as defined in 
        section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965;
            ``(2) an Indian tribe or tribal organization, as defined 
        under section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
        Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b); or
            ``(3) not less than 1 nonprofit entity working in 
        coordination with not less than 1 of the following entities:
                    ``(A) A high-need local educational agency.
                    ``(B) A charter school funded by the Bureau of 
                Indian Education that is not a local educational 
                agency, except that such school shall not be the fiscal 
                agent for the eligible entity partnership.
                    ``(C) An institution of higher education, as 
                defined in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965.
                    ``(D) The office of a chief elected official of a 
                unit of local government.
                    ``(E) An Indian tribe or tribal organization, as 
                defined under section 4 of the Indian Self-
                Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
                450b).

``SEC. 4413. APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) In General.--An eligible entity desiring a grant under this 
subpart shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in 
such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may 
require.
    ``(b) Contents of Application.--At a minimum, an application 
described in subsection (a) shall include the following:
            ``(1) A plan to significantly improve the academic outcomes 
        of children living in a neighborhood that is served by the 
        eligible entity, by providing pipeline services that address 
        the needs of children in the neighborhood, as identified by the 
        needs analysis described in paragraph (4) and supported by 
        evidence-based practices.
            ``(2) A description of the neighborhood that the eligible 
        entity will serve.
            ``(3) Measurable annual goals for the outcomes of the 
        grant, including--
                    ``(A) performance goals, in accordance with the 
                metrics described in section 4416(a), for each year of 
                the grant; and
                    ``(B) projected participation rates and any plans 
                to expand the number of children served or the 
                neighborhood proposed to be served by the grant 
                program.
            ``(4) An analysis of the needs and assets of the 
        neighborhood identified in paragraph (2), including--
                    ``(A) a description of the process through which 
                the needs analysis was produced, including a 
                description of how parents, family, and community 
                members were engaged in such analysis;
                    ``(B) an analysis of community assets, including 
                programs already provided from Federal and non-Federal 
                sources, within, or accessible to, the neighborhood, 
                including, at a minimum--
                            ``(i) early learning programs, including 
                        high-quality child care, Early Head Start 
                        programs, Head Start programs, and 
                        prekindergarten programs;
                            ``(ii) the availability of healthy food 
                        options and opportunities for physical 
                        activity;
                            ``(iii) existing family and student 
                        supports;
                            ``(iv) locally owned businesses and 
                        employers; and
                            ``(v) institutions of higher education;
                    ``(C) evidence of successful collaboration within 
                the neighborhood;
                    ``(D) the steps that the eligible entity is taking, 
                at the time of the application, to address the needs 
                identified in the needs analysis; and
                    ``(E) any barriers the eligible entity, public 
                agencies, and other community-based organizations have 
                faced in meeting such needs.
            ``(5) A description of the data used to identify the 
        pipeline services to be provided, including data regarding--
                    ``(A) school readiness;
                    ``(B) academic achievement and college and career 
                readiness;
                    ``(C) graduation rates;
                    ``(D) health indicators;
                    ``(E) rates of enrollment, remediation, 
                persistence, and completion at institutions of higher 
                education, as available; and
                    ``(F) conditions for learning, including school 
                climate surveys, discipline rates, and student 
                attendance and incident data.
            ``(6) A description of the process used to develop the 
        application, including the involvement of family and community 
        members.
            ``(7) An estimate of--
                    ``(A) the number of children, by age, who will be 
                served by each pipeline service; and
                    ``(B) for each age group, the percentage of 
                children (of such age group), within the neighborhood, 
                who the eligible entity proposes to serve, 
                disaggregated by each service, and the goals for 
                increasing such percentage over time.
            ``(8) A description of how the pipeline services will 
        facilitate the coordination of the following activities:
                    ``(A) Providing high-quality early learning 
                opportunities for children, beginning prenatally and 
                extending through grade 3, by--
                            ``(i) supporting high-quality early 
                        learning opportunities that provide children 
                        with access to programs that support the 
                        cognitive and developmental skills, including 
                        social and emotional skills, needed for success 
                        in elementary school;
                            ``(ii) providing for opportunities, through 
                        parenting classes, baby academies, home visits, 
                        family and community engagement, or other 
                        evidence-based strategies, for families and 
                        expectant parents to--
                                    ``(I) acquire the skills to promote 
                                early learning, development, and health 
                                and safety, including learning about 
                                child development and positive 
                                discipline strategies (such as through 
                                the use of technology and public media 
                                programming);
                                    ``(II) learn about the role of 
                                families and expectant parents in their 
                                child's education; and
                                    ``(III) become informed about 
                                educational opportunities for their 
                                children, including differences in 
                                quality among early learning 
                                opportunities;
                            ``(iii) ensuring successful transitions 
                        between early learning programs and elementary 
                        school, including through the establishment of 
                        memoranda of understanding between early 
                        learning providers and local educational 
                        agencies serving young children and families;
                            ``(iv) ensuring appropriate screening, 
                        diagnostic assessments, and referrals for 
                        children with disabilities, developmental 
                        delays, or other special needs, consistent with 
                        the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
                        (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.), where applicable;
                            ``(v) improving the early learning 
                        workforce in the community, including through--
                                    ``(I) investments in the 
                                recruitment, retention, distribution, 
                                and support of high-quality 
                                professionals, especially those with 
                                certification and experience in child 
                                development;
                                    ``(II) the provision of high-
                                quality teacher preparation and 
                                professional development; or
                                    ``(III) the use of joint 
                                professional development for early 
                                learning providers and elementary 
                                school teachers and administrators; and
                            ``(vi) enhancing data systems and data 
                        sharing among the eligible entity, partners, 
                        early learning providers, schools, and local 
                        educational agencies operating in the 
                        neighborhood.
                    ``(B) Supporting, enhancing, operating, or 
                expanding rigorous and comprehensive education reforms 
                designed to significantly improve educational outcomes 
                for children in early learning programs through grade 
                12, which may include--
                            ``(i) operating schools or working in close 
                        collaboration with local schools to provide 
                        high-quality academic programs, curricula, and 
                        integrated student supports;
                            ``(ii) providing expanded learning time, 
                        which may include the integration and use of 
                        arts education in such learning time; and
                            ``(iii) providing programs and activities 
                        that ensure that students--
                                    ``(I) are prepared for the college 
                                admissions, scholarship, and financial 
                                aid application processes; and
                                    ``(II) graduate college and career 
                                ready.
                    ``(C) Supporting access to a healthy lifestyle, 
                which may include--
                            ``(i) the provision of high-quality and 
                        nutritious meals;
                            ``(ii) access to programs that promote 
                        physical activity, physical education, and 
                        fitness; and
                            ``(iii) education to promote a healthy 
                        lifestyle and positive body image.
                    ``(D) Providing social, health, and mental health 
                services and supports, including referrals for 
                essential care and preventative screenings, for 
                children, family, and community members, which may 
                include--
                            ``(i) dental services;
                            ``(ii) vision care; and
                            ``(iii) speech, language, and auditory 
                        screenings and referrals.
                    ``(E) Supporting students and family members as the 
                students transition from early learning programs into 
                elementary school, from elementary school to middle 
                school, from middle school to high school, from high 
                school into and through college and into the workforce, 
                including through evidence-based strategies to address 
                challenges that students may face as they transition, 
                such as the following:
                            ``(i) Early college high schools.
                            ``(ii) Dual enrollment programs.
                            ``(iii) Career academies.
                            ``(iv) Counseling and support services.
                            ``(v) Dropout prevention and recovery 
                        strategies.
                            ``(vi) Collaboration with the juvenile 
                        justice system and reentry counseling for 
                        adjudicated youth.
                            ``(vii) Advanced Placement or International 
                        Baccalaureate courses.
                            ``(viii) Teen parent classrooms.
                            ``(ix) Graduation and career coaches.
            ``(9) A description of the strategies that will be used to 
        provide pipeline services (including a description of the 
        process used to identify such strategies and the outcomes 
        expected and a description of which programs and services will 
        be provided to children, family members, community members, and 
        children not attending schools or programs operated by the 
        eligible entity or its partner providers) to support the 
        purpose of this part.
            ``(10) An explanation of the process the eligible entity 
        will use to establish and maintain family and community 
        engagement.
            ``(11) An explanation of how the eligible entity will 
        continuously evaluate and improve the continuum of high-quality 
        pipeline services, including--
                    ``(A) a description of the metrics, consistent with 
                section 4416(a), that will be used to inform each 
                component of the pipeline; and
                    ``(B) the processes for using data to improve 
                instruction, optimize integrated student supports, 
                provide for continuous program improvement, and hold 
                staff and partner organizations accountable.
            ``(12) An identification of the fiscal agent, which may be 
        any entity described in section 4412 (not including paragraph 
        (2) of such section).
            ``(13) A list of the non-Federal sources of funding that 
        the eligible entity will secure to comply with the matching 
        funds requirement described in section 4411(d), in addition to 
        other programs from which the eligible entity has already 
        secured funding, including programs funded by the Department or 
        programs of the Department of Health and Human Services, the 
        Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of 
        Justice, or the Department of Labor.
    ``(c) Memorandum of Understanding.--An eligible entity, as part of 
the application described in this section, shall submit a preliminary 
memorandum of understanding, signed by each partner entity or agency. 
The preliminary memorandum of understanding shall describe, at a 
minimum--
            ``(1) each partner's financial and programmatic commitment 
        with respect to the strategies described in the application, 
        including an identification of the fiscal agent;
            ``(2) each partner's long-term commitment to providing 
        pipeline services that, at a minimum, accounts for the cost of 
        supporting the continuum of supports and services (including a 
        plan for how to support services and activities after grant 
        funds are no longer available) and potential changes in local 
        government;
            ``(3) each partner's mission and the plan that will govern 
        the work that the partners do together;
            ``(4) each partner's long-term commitment to supporting the 
        continuum of supports and services through data collection, 
        monitoring, reporting, and sharing; and
            ``(5) each partner's commitment to ensure sound fiscal 
        management and controls, including evidence of a system of 
        supports and personnel.

``SEC. 4414. USE OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) In General.--Each eligible entity that receives a grant under 
this subpart shall use the grant funds to--
            ``(1) support planning activities to develop and implement 
        pipeline services;
            ``(2) implement the pipeline services, as described in the 
        application under section 4413; and
            ``(3) continuously evaluate the success of the program and 
        improve the program based on data and outcomes.
    ``(b) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) Funds for pipeline services.--Each eligible entity 
        that receives a grant under this subpart, for the first and 
        second year of the grant, shall use not less than 50 percent of 
        the grant funds to carry out the activities described in 
        subsection (a)(1).
            ``(2) Operational flexibility.--Each eligible entity that 
        operates a school in a neighborhood served by a grant program 
        under this subpart shall provide such school with the 
        operational flexibility, including autonomy over staff, time, 
        and budget, needed to effectively carry out the activities 
        described in the application under section 4413.
            ``(3) Limitation on use of funds for early childhood 
        education programs.--Funds under this subpart that are used to 
        improve early childhood education programs shall not be used to 
        carry out any of the following activities:
                    ``(A) Assessments that provide rewards or sanctions 
                for individual children or teachers.
                    ``(B) A single assessment that is used as the 
                primary or sole method for assessing program 
                effectiveness.
                    ``(C) Evaluating children, other than for the 
                purposes of improving instruction, classroom 
                environment, professional development, or parent and 
                family engagement, or program improvement.

``SEC. 4415. REPORT AND PUBLICLY AVAILABLE DATA.

    ``(a) Report.--Each eligible entity that receives a grant under 
this subpart shall prepare and submit an annual report to the 
Secretary, which shall include--
            ``(1) information about the number and percentage of 
        children in the neighborhood who are served by the grant 
        program, including a description of the number and percentage 
        of children accessing each support or service offered as part 
        of the pipeline services;
            ``(2) information relating to the performance metrics 
        described in section 4416(a); and
            ``(3) other indicators that may be required by the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the Institute 
        of Education Sciences.
    ``(b) Publicly Available Data.--Each eligible entity that receives 
a grant under this subpart shall make publicly available, including 
through electronic means, the information described in subsection (a). 
To the extent practicable, such information shall be provided in a form 
and language accessible to parents and families in the neighborhood, 
and such information shall be a part of statewide longitudinal data 
systems.

``SEC. 4416. PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AND EVALUATION.

    ``(a) Performance Metrics.--Each eligible entity that receives a 
grant under this subpart shall collect data on performance indicators 
of pipeline services and family and student supports and report the 
results to the Secretary, who shall use the results as a consideration 
in continuing grants after the third year and in awarding grant 
renewals. The indicators shall, at a minimum, include the following:
            ``(1) Evidence of increasing qualifications for staff in 
        early care and education programs attended by children in the 
        neighborhood.
            ``(2) With respect to the children served by the grant--
                    ``(A) the percentage of children who are ready for 
                kindergarten, as measured by a comprehensive 
                developmental screening instrument;
                    ``(B) the percentage of school-age children 
                proficient in core academic subjects;
                    ``(C) evidence of narrowing student achievement 
                gaps among the categories described in section 
                1111(b)(3)(C)(xiii);
                    ``(D) the percentage of children who are reading at 
                grade level by the end of grade 3;
                    ``(E) the percentage of children who successfully 
                transition from grade 8 to grade 9;
                    ``(F) for each school year during the grant period, 
                the percentage of students in prekindergarten, 
                elementary school, and secondary school who miss more 
                than 10 percent of school days for any reason, excused 
                or unexcused, and the number and percentage of students 
                who are suspended or expelled for any reason, starting 
                in prekindergarten;
                    ``(G) the percentage of children who graduate with 
                a high school diploma;
                    ``(H) the percentage of children who enter 
                postsecondary education and remain after 1 year;
                    ``(I) the percentage of children who are healthy, 
                as measured by a child-health index that includes 
                cognitive, nutritional, physical, social, mental-
                health, and emotional domains;
                    ``(J) the percentage of children who feel safe, as 
                measured by a school climate survey;
                    ``(K) rates of student mobility and homelessness;
                    ``(L) opportunities for family members of children 
                to receive education and job training; and
                    ``(M) the percentage of children who have digital 
                literacy skills and access to broadband internet and a 
                connected computing device at home and at school.
    ``(b) Evaluation.--The Secretary shall evaluate the implementation 
and impact of the activities funded under this subpart, in accordance 
with section 9601.

                   ``Subpart 2--Promise School Grants

``SEC. 4421. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Program authorized.--From amounts appropriated to 
        carry out this subpart, the Secretary shall award grants, on a 
        competitive basis, to eligible entities to implement school-
        centered, evidence-based strategies and integrated student 
        supports that leverage community partnerships to improve 
        student achievement and child development by carrying out the 
        activities described in section 4424 in schools with high 
        concentrations of low-income children.
            ``(2) Sufficient size and scope.--Each grant awarded under 
        this subpart shall be of sufficient size and scope to allow the 
        eligible entity to carry out the purpose of this part.
    ``(b) General Provisions.--The requirements of subsections (b), 
(c), (d), and (e) of section 4411 and section 4414(b) shall apply to a 
grant under this subpart in the same manner as such subsections apply 
to a grant under subpart 1, except that the performance metrics used 
for section 4411(c) shall be the metrics under section 4426(a).

``SEC. 4422. DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE ENTITY.

    ``In this subpart, the term `eligible entity' means--
            ``(1) not less than 1 high-need local educational agency 
        (including a charter school that is a local educational agency) 
        in partnership with 1 or more nonprofit entities or 
        institutions of higher education; or
            ``(2) a school funded by the Bureau of Indian Education 
        that falls under the definition of a local educational agency 
        in partnership with 1 or more nonprofit entities or 
        institutions of higher education.

``SEC. 4423. APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS; PRIORITY.

    ``(a) In General.--An eligible entity desiring a grant under this 
subpart shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in 
such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may 
require.
    ``(b) Contents of Application.--At a minimum, the application 
described in subsection (a) shall include the following:
            ``(1) A description of the local educational agency, 
        schools, and students that will be served by the grant program.
            ``(2) A description of the steps that the eligible entity 
        is taking--
                    ``(A) to meet the needs identified in the analysis 
                described in paragraph (4); and
                    ``(B) to remove any barriers that the eligible 
                entity has identified in meeting such needs.
            ``(3) The designation of a site coordinator, with 
        appropriate qualifications and appropriate time, autonomy, and 
        support to provide--
                    ``(A) leadership in building relationships and 
                establishing and sustaining partnerships that support 
                school improvement, school turnaround efforts in 
                accordance with the State accountability system 
                included in the State plan submitted to the Secretary, 
                increases in student achievement, positive child 
                development, and parent, family, and community 
                engagement; and
                    ``(B) effective coordination of student services at 
                all stages of the continuum of high-quality pipeline 
                services.
            ``(4) An analysis of the needs and assets of the schools 
        and communities that will be assisted under the grant. Such 
        analysis shall include--
                    ``(A) student data, including information about--
                            ``(i) kindergarten readiness, as measured 
                        by a comprehensive developmental screening 
                        instrument;
                            ``(ii) academic achievement;
                            ``(iii) credit accumulation;
                            ``(iv) grade-to-grade promotion;
                            ``(v) graduation;
                            ``(vi) attendance; and
                            ``(vii) discipline; and
                    ``(B) information about the assets described in 
                section 4413(b)(4)(B) with respect to such schools and 
                communities.
            ``(5) An explanation of how the eligible entity and its 
        program partners will use evidence-based practice, data, 
        research, and partnerships to provide pipeline services that--
                    ``(A) address the needs identified in paragraph 
                (4);
                    ``(B) conduct family and community engagement;
                    ``(C) enable teachers and administrators, including 
                early learning providers, to complement and enrich 
                efforts to help children--
                            ``(i) achieve learning gains;
                            ``(ii) prepare for graduation; and
                            ``(iii) plan for the future, including 
                        preparing for college and careers; and
                    ``(D) coordinate and leverage other programs that 
                serve children, the schools served by the grant, and 
                the neighborhood.
            ``(6) An explanation of the extent to which the eligible 
        entity and its program partners will serve or involve children 
        residing in the neighborhood regardless of whether such 
        children attend a school served by the grant, including by 
        carrying out the activities described in section 4413(b)(8).
            ``(7) A description of the capacity of the eligible entity 
        for measuring student outcomes and school-specific outcomes.
            ``(8) A description of how the strategies supported with 
        funds under this subpart will be--
                    ``(A) coordinated with other programs and 
                strategies carried out by the local educational agency; 
                and
                    ``(B) to the greatest extent practicable, 
                coordinated with other agencies, such as agencies that 
                provide reentry services to adjudicated youth.
            ``(9) A description of the strategy the eligible entity 
        will use to--
                    ``(A) conduct family and community engagement; and
                    ``(B) make schools the centers of their respective 
                communities.
            ``(10) A list of the non-Federal sources of funding that 
        the eligible entity will secure to comply with the matching 
        funds requirement pursuant to sections 4411(d) and 4421, in 
        addition to other programs the eligible entity has already 
        secured funding from, including programs funded by the 
        Department, or programs of the Department of Health and Human 
        Services, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the 
        Department of Justice, or the Department of Labor.
    ``(c) Memorandum of Understanding.--An eligible entity, as part of 
the application described in this section, shall submit a preliminary 
memorandum of understanding that meets the requirements of section 
4413(c).
    ``(d) Priority.--In awarding grants under this subpart, the 
Secretary shall give priority to applicants that--
            ``(1) propose to include significant investments, as 
        determined by the Secretary, in high-quality early learning 
        programs, consistent with section 4413(b)(8)(A); and
            ``(2) provide schools served by the grant with the 
        operational flexibility, including autonomy over staff, time, 
        and budget, needed to effectively carry out the activities 
        described in the application under this section.

``SEC. 4424. USE OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) In General.--Each eligible entity that receives a grant under 
this subpart shall use the grant funds to--
            ``(1) implement the activities described in the application 
        under section 4423; and
            ``(2) continuously evaluate the success of the grant 
        program and improve the grant program based on data and 
        outcomes.
    ``(b) Special Rule.--
            ``(1) Limitation on use of funds for early childhood 
        education programs.--Funds under this subpart that are used to 
        improve early childhood education programs shall not be used to 
        carry out any of the following activities:
                    ``(A) Assessments that provide rewards or sanctions 
                for individual children or teachers.
                    ``(B) A single assessment that is used as the 
                primary or sole method for assessing program 
                effectiveness.
                    ``(C) Evaluating children, other than for the 
                purposes of improving instruction, classroom 
                environment, professional development, or parent and 
                family engagement, or program improvement.

``SEC. 4425. REPORT AND PUBLICLY AVAILABLE DATA.

    ``(a) Report.--Each eligible entity that receives a grant under 
this subpart shall prepare and submit an annual report to the 
Secretary, which shall include--
            ``(1) information about the number and percentage of 
        children served by the grant program, disaggregated the 
        subgroups described in section 1111(b)(3)(C)(xiii);
            ``(2) information relating to the performance metrics 
        described in section 4426(a); and
            ``(3) other indicators that may be required by the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the Institute 
        of Education Sciences.
    ``(b) Publicly Available Data.--Each eligible entity that receives 
a grant under this subpart shall make publicly available, including 
through electronic means, the information described in subsection (a). 
To the extent practicable, such information shall be provided in a form 
and language accessible to parents and families in the neighborhood.

``SEC. 4426. PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AND EVALUATION.

    ``(a) Performance Metrics.--Each eligible entity receiving a grant 
under this subpart shall collect data on performance indicators of 
pipeline services and family and student supports and report the 
results to the Secretary, who shall use the results as a consideration 
in continuing grants after the third year and awarding grant renewals. 
The indicators shall, at a minimum, include the indicators described in 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 4416(a).
    ``(b) Evaluation.--The Secretary shall evaluate the implementation 
and impact of the activities funded under this subpart, in accordance 
with section 9601.

                    ``Subpart 3--General Provisions

``SEC. 4431. NATIONAL ACTIVITIES.

    ``From the amounts appropriated to carry out this part for a fiscal 
year, in addition to the amounts that may be reserved in accordance 
with section 9601, the Secretary may reserve not more than 8 percent 
for national activities, which may include--
            ``(1) research on the activities carried out under subparts 
        1 and 2;
            ``(2) identification and dissemination of best practices, 
        including through support for a community of practice;
            ``(3) technical assistance, including assistance relating 
        to family and community engagement and outreach to potential 
        partner organizations;
            ``(4) professional development, including development of 
        materials related to professional development; and
            ``(5) other activities consistent with the purpose of this 
        part.''.
                                 <all>
