[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4983 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4983

  To provide information to prescribers in Federally qualified health 
 centers and facilities of the Indian Health Service on best practices 
                       for prescribing naloxone.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 18, 2016

 Mr. Griffith introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
 Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide information to prescribers in Federally qualified health 
 centers and facilities of the Indian Health Service on best practices 
                       for prescribing naloxone.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PROVIDING INFORMATION TO PRESCRIBERS IN CERTAIN FEDERAL 
              HEALTH CARE AND MEDICAL FACILITIES ON BEST PRACTICES FOR 
              PRESCRIBING NALOXONE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in 
this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall, as appropriate, 
provide information to prescribers within Federally qualified health 
centers (as defined in paragraph (4) of section 1861(aa) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(aa))), and the health care facilities of 
the Indian Health Service, on best practices for prescribing naloxone 
for patients receiving chronic opioid therapy, patients being treated 
for opioid use disorders, and other patients that a provider identifies 
as having an elevated risk of overdose from heroin or prescription 
opioid therapies.
    (b) Not Establishing a Medical Standard of Care.--The information 
on best practices provided under this section shall not be construed as 
constituting or establishing a medical standard of care for prescribing 
naloxone for patients described in subsection (a).
    (c) No Authorization of Any Additional Appropriations.--The 
Secretary shall carry out this section through funds otherwise 
appropriated and nothing in this section shall be construed as 
authorizing the appropriations of additional funds to carry out this 
section.
    (d) Elevated Risk of Overdose Defined.--In this section, the term 
``elevated risk of overdose'' has the meaning given such term by the 
Secretary, which--
            (1) may be based on the criteria provided in the Opioid 
        Overdose Toolkit published by the Substance Abuse and Mental 
        Health Services Administration (SAMHSA); and
            (2) may include patients on a first course opioid 
        treatment, patients using extended-release and long-acting 
        opioid analgesic, and patients with a respiratory disease or 
        other comorbidities.
                                 <all>
