[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3471 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3471

To amend title 38, United States Code, to make certain improvements in 
 the provision of automobiles and adaptive equipment by the Department 
                          of Veterans Affairs.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 10, 2015

 Mrs. Walorski (for herself, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. 
 Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Barr, and Mr. Curbelo of Florida) introduced 
 the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Veterans' 
                                Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 38, United States Code, to make certain improvements in 
 the provision of automobiles and adaptive equipment by the Department 
                          of Veterans Affairs.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans Mobility Safety Act of 
2015''.

SEC. 2. IMPROVEMENT OF PROVISION OF AUTOMOBILES AND ADAPTIVE EQUIPMENT 
              BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Automobiles and Adaptive Equipment.--Section 3903 of title 38, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``Except'' and inserting ``(1) 
                Except''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary shall ensure that to the extent practicable an 
eligible person who is provided an automobile or other conveyance under 
this chapter is given the opportunity to make personal selections 
relating to such automobile or other conveyance.'';
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking ``Adaptive'' and inserting ``(1) 
                Adaptive''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, minimum standards shall 
include that--
            ``(A) the provider of any adaptive equipment modification 
        services, including the repair, maintenance, or replacement of 
        such equipment, shall be certified in the provision of the 
        modification service performed by--
                    ``(i) a certification organization; or
                    ``(ii) the manufacturer of the adaptive equipment 
                for which the modification services are performed;
            ``(B) any individual performing such modification services 
        on an automobile shall--
                    ``(i) be certified in the provision of the 
                modification service performed by--
                            ``(I) a certification organization; or
                            ``(II) the manufacturer of the adaptive 
                        equipment for the modification services are 
                        performed; or
                    ``(ii) be licensed or certified by the State in 
                which the modification service is performed if such 
                service is within the scope of practice, as determined 
                by the State for the service; and
            ``(C) the provider of the automobile or adaptive equipment 
        or the provider of the modification services for such 
        automobile or adaptive equipment shall--
                    ``(i) adhere to chapter 126 of title 42 (commonly 
                known as the `Americans with Disabilities Act of 
                1990'); and
                    ``(ii) adhere to the `make inoperative mandates' of 
                the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
                Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards prescribed 
                pursuant to section 30122 of title 49.
    ``(3) In this subsection:
            ``(A) The term `certification organization' means an 
        organization that--
                    ``(i) is recognized as being qualified by the 
                Secretary;
                    ``(ii) is a nonprofit organization;
                    ``(iii) is a national or international organization 
                with an accreditation program for automotive adaptive 
                equipment; and
                    ``(iv) has established standards for recordkeeping 
                and to minimize the possibility of conflicts of 
                interest as determined by the Secretary.
            ``(B) The term `modification services' means structural 
        modifications or the addition or installation of adaptive 
        equipment intended to increase, maintain, or improve the 
        functional capacity of a disabled driver to safely drive or 
        ride as a passenger.''.
    (b) Rehabilitative Services.--Section 1718 of such title is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) In providing rehabilitative services under this chapter, if 
the Secretary provides adaptive equipment, the Secretary shall ensure 
that such equipment meets the minimum standards prescribed under 
section 3903(d)(2) of this title.''.
    (c) Vocational Rehabilitation.--Section 3104 of such title is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) In providing a rehabilitation program under this chapter, if 
the Secretary provides adaptive equipment, the Secretary shall ensure 
that such equipment meets the minimum standards prescribed under 
section 3903(d)(2) of this title.''.
    (d) Deadline for Regulations.--Not later than one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall prescribe regulations to carry out the amendments made by this 
section.
                                 <all>
