[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 742 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 117
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 742

                          [Report No. 114-590]

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
  2576) to modernize the Toxic Substances Control Act, and for other 
  purposes, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 897) to 
 amend the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act and the 
  Federal Water Pollution Control Act to clarify Congressional intent 
regarding the regulation of the use of pesticides in or near navigable 
                    waters, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 23, 2016

   Mr. Woodall, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
  2576) to modernize the Toxic Substances Control Act, and for other 
  purposes, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 897) to 
 amend the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act and the 
  Federal Water Pollution Control Act to clarify Congressional intent 
regarding the regulation of the use of pesticides in or near navigable 
                    waters, and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 2576) to 
modernize the Toxic Substances Control Act, and for other purposes, 
with the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, 
without intervention of any point of order, a motion offered by the 
chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or his designee that the 
House concur in the Senate amendment with an amendment inserting the 
text of Rules Committee Print 114-54 modified by the amendment printed 
in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution in 
lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by the Senate. The Senate 
amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall 
be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to 
its adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the 
question.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 897) to amend the Federal 
Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act and the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act to clarify Congressional intent regarding the 
regulation of the use of pesticides in or near navigable waters, and 
for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. An amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting 
of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-53 shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure; and (2) one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
                                                 House Calendar No. 117

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 742

                          [Report No. 114-590]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
  2576) to modernize the Toxic Substances Control Act, and for other 
  purposes, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 897) to 
 amend the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act and the 
  Federal Water Pollution Control Act to clarify Congressional intent 
regarding the regulation of the use of pesticides in or near navigable 
                    waters, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 23, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
