[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1634 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1634

    To strengthen accountability for deployment of border security 
   technology at the Department of Homeland Security, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 25, 2015

Ms. McSally (for herself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Katko, Mr. Hurd of Texas, Mr. 
   Carter of Georgia, Mr. Walker, Mr. Loudermilk, and Mr. Ratcliffe) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                           Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To strengthen accountability for deployment of border security 
   technology at the Department of Homeland Security, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Border Security Technology 
Accountability Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. BORDER SECURITY TECHNOLOGY ACCOUNTABILITY.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of title IV of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 231 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 434. BORDER SECURITY TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.

    ``(a) Planning Documentation.--Each border security technology 
acquisition program of the Department with a significant lifecycle cost 
estimate shall--
            ``(1) have written documentation demonstrating that each 
        such program has an acquisition program baseline approved by 
        the relevant acquisition decision authority; and
            ``(2) demonstrate that each such program is meeting agreed-
        upon cost, schedule, and performance thresholds, in compliance 
        with the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
    ``(b) Adherence to Standards.--The Under Secretary for Management, 
in coordination with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection, shall ensure border security technology acquisition program 
managers who are responsible for carrying out this section adhere to 
relevant internal control standards identified by the Comptroller 
General of the United States. The Commissioner shall provide 
information, as needed, to assist the Under Secretary in monitoring 
proper program management of border security technology acquisition 
programs under this section.
    ``(c) Plan.--The Under Secretary for Management, in coordination 
with the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan for testing 
and evaluation, as well as the use of independent verification and 
validation resources, for border security technology so that new border 
security technologies are evaluated through a series of assessments, 
processes, and audits to ensure the effectiveness of taxpayer 
dollars.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 433 the following new item:

``Sec. 434. Border security technology program management.''.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this Act and the amendments made by this Act. This Act and such 
amendments shall be carried out using amounts otherwise available for 
such purposes.
                                 <all>
