[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 19 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                   House Calendar No. 1
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 19

                           [Report No. 114-1]

    Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3) to approve the 
Keystone XL Pipeline, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
 30) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the 30-hour 
 threshold for classification as a full-time employee for purposes of 
the employer mandate in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
                     and replace it with 40 hours.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 7, 2015

   Mr. Burgess, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
    Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3) to approve the 
Keystone XL Pipeline, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
 30) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the 30-hour 
 threshold for classification as a full-time employee for purposes of 
the employer mandate in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
                     and replace it with 40 hours.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3) to approve the 
Keystone XL Pipeline. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto 
to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided among and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
and the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 30) to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to repeal the 30-hour threshold for classification as a 
full-time employee for purposes of the employer mandate in the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act and replace it with 40 hours. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit.
                                                   House Calendar No. 1

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. RES. 19

                           [Report No. 114-1]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

    Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3) to approve the 
Keystone XL Pipeline, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
 30) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the 30-hour 
 threshold for classification as a full-time employee for purposes of 
the employer mandate in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
                     and replace it with 40 hours.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            January 7, 2015

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
