[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1921 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1921

 To facilitate the expedited review of applications of aliens applying 
 for admission to the United States under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act who are coming to the United States to 
participate in a program under which they will receive graduate medical 
   education or training, require the Secretary of State to provide 
relevant Foreign Service officers with training regarding such aliens, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 21, 2015

   Ms. Meng (for herself and Mr. Emmer of Minnesota) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
and in addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To facilitate the expedited review of applications of aliens applying 
 for admission to the United States under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act who are coming to the United States to 
participate in a program under which they will receive graduate medical 
   education or training, require the Secretary of State to provide 
relevant Foreign Service officers with training regarding such aliens, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Grant Residency for Additional 
Doctors Act of 2015'' or the ``GRAD Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. EXPEDITED REVIEW OF CERTAIN J-1 VISAS AND TRAINING FOR FOREIGN 
              SERVICE OFFICERS.

    (a) Expedited Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall designate an 
officer or employee of the Department of State whose sole 
responsibility during the months of March, April, May, June, and any 
other period of time as determined appropriate by the Secretary, shall 
be to facilitate the expedited review of applications of aliens 
applying for admission to the United States under section 101(a)(15)(J) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(J)) who 
are coming to the United States to participate in a program under which 
such aliens will receive graduate medical education or training.
    (b) Training.--Beginning not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall provide to relevant 
Foreign Service officers training related to medical graduates and 
medical graduate programs in the countries in which such officers are 
serving. Such training shall be part of the training provided to such 
officers under section 701 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
U.S.C. 4021).
                                 <all>
