[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6218 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6218

    To clarify the boundary of Acadia National Park, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 28, 2016

 Mr. Poliquin introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To clarify the boundary of Acadia National Park, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ACADIA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY.

    (a) In General.--Section 101 of Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341 
note; 100 Stat. 955) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``In order to'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(a) Boundaries.--In order to'';
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``The map'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(b) Availability of Map.--The maps described in subsection (a) 
and subsection (c)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Schoodic Peninsula Addition.--The boundary of the Park is 
confirmed to include approximately 1,441 acres of land and interests in 
land, as depicted on the map entitled `Acadia National Park, Hancock 
County, Maine, Schoodic Peninsula Boundary Revision', numbered 123/
129102, and dated July 10, 2015.
    ``(d) Ratification and Approval of Acquisitions.--There are hereby 
ratified and approved the following:
            ``(1) Retroactive to September 26, 2013, the acquisition or 
        purported acquisition by the United States of land and 
        interests in land referred to in subsection (c).
            ``(2) Any subsequent or purported alteration of the land 
        and interests in land referred to in subsection (c) held or 
        claimed by the United States in said property (including 
        conversion to fee simple interest), retroactive to whatever 
        point an alteration occurred or may have occurred.''.

SEC. 2. ACQUISITION OF LAND.

    The Secretary of the Interior may only acquire land or interests in 
land--
            (1) within the boundary of Acadia National Park in 
        accordance with Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note; 100 
        Stat. 955); and
            (2) outside the boundary of Acadia National Park in Hancock 
        County, Maine, in accordance with Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 
        341, note; 100 Stat. 955).

SEC. 3. ACADIA BOUNDARY ACT FOR SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT.

    Section 102(f) of Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341, note; 1001 
Stat. 957) is amended by striking ``toward the cost of constructing'' 
through ``50 per centum of the cost of such construction.'' and 
inserting ``$350,000 to a regional consortium established by law for 
the purpose of improving the management of the disposal and recycling 
of solid waste and composed of municipalities on as well as near Mount 
Desert Island.''.

SEC. 4. ACADIA NATIONAL PARK ADVISORY COMMISSION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall reestablish 
and appoint members to the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission in 
accordance with section 103 of Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note; 
100 Stat. 959).
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 103 of Public Law 99-420 (16 
U.S.C. 341 note; 100 Stat. 959) is amended by striking subsection (f).

SEC. 5. REPEALS.

    The following provisions are repealed:
            (1) Section 3 of the Act of February 26, 1919 (40 Stat. 
        1179, chapter 45).
            (2) The first section of the Act of January 19, 1929 (45 
        Stat. 1083, chapter 77).

SEC. 6. USE RESTRICTION MODIFIED.

    The Act of August 1, 1950 (64 Stat. 383, chapter 511), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``That the Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:

``SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF LAND IN ACADIA NATIONAL PARK.

    ``The Secretary''; and
            (2) by striking ``for school purposes'' and inserting ``for 
        public purposes, subject to the conditions that use of the 
        property shall not degrade or adversely impact the resources or 
        values of Acadia National Park, and the land shall remain in 
        public ownership for recreational, educational, or similar 
        public purposes''.

SEC. 7. PRESERVATION OF PUBLIC TRUST.

    Title I of Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341, note; 100 Stat. 9550 is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 109. PRESERVATION OF PUBLIC TRUST.

    ``(a) Nothing in this Act or Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341, 
note; 100 Stat. 955)] or any other law, including laws of general 
applicability, shall be construed to affect, preempt or in any way 
diminish the rights, responsibilities and authority of the State of 
Maine under and pursuant to the public trust doctrine over any lands in 
which the United States possesses any kind of property interest where 
that land is located seaward of the mean high water mark.
    ``(b) Nothing in this Act or Public Law 99-420 (16 U.S.C. 341, 
note; 100 Stat. 9550) shall be construed to affect, preempt or in any 
diminish the rights and privileges of any person under public trust 
doctrine upon any lands in which the United States possesses any kind 
of property interest where that land is located seaward of the mean 
high water mark.
    ``(c) The provisions of any Federal law enacted after the date of 
the enactment of this Act pertaining to the authority of the United 
States over lands in which the United States possesses any kind of 
property interest which would affect, preempt or in any way diminish 
the rights, responsibilities, and authority of the State of Maine, as 
stated in subsection (a) of this section, shall not apply within the 
State of Maine unless such provision of such subsequently enacted 
Federal law is specifically made applicable to Maine.
    ``(d) The term `public trust' as used in this section has the 
meaning ascribed to it by and under Maine law.
    ``(e) The term `Maine law' means the Constitution, and all 
statutes, regulations, and common laws of the State of Maine and its 
political subdivisions and all subsequent amendments thereto and 
judicial interpretations thereof.''.
                                 <all>
