[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2111 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2111

 To eliminate certain programs of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 29, 2015

   Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas introduced the following bill; which was 
 referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to 
 the Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, Agriculture, and 
    Science, Space, and Technology, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To eliminate certain programs of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Wasteful EPA Programs Elimination 
Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. ELIMINATION OF EPA GRANT PROGRAMS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
            (1) all grant programs of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency that are in effect as of the date of enactment of this 
        Act are hereby terminated; and
            (2) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency may not establish or implement any grant program.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR NEW OZONE STANDARDS.

    No funds made available under any Act may be used by the 
Environmental Protection Agency to implement any ozone standard 
promulgated after the date of enactment of this Act, including any 
national primary or secondary ambient air quality standard for ozone 
promulgated (or revised) under section 109 of the Clean Air Act (42 
U.S.C. 7409).

SEC. 4. ELIMINATION OF FUNDING FOR CERTAIN REGULATIONS AND PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--No Federal funds may be used by the Environmental 
Protection Agency--
            (1) to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from mobile 
        sources (including cars, trains, airplanes, and non-road 
        equipment);
            (2) to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel-
        fired electric utility generating units under the Clean Air Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.);
            (3) for the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program or any similar 
        or successor program;
            (4) for the Global Methane Initiative or any similar or 
        successor initiative;
            (5) for the Climate Resilience Fund or any similar or 
        successor fund;
            (6) for the Climate Resilience Evaluation Awareness Tool or 
        any similar or successor tool;
            (7) for the Green Infrastructure Program or any similar or 
        successor program;
            (8) for the Climate Ready Water Utilities Initiative or any 
        similar or successor initiative; or
            (9) for climate research at the Office of Research and 
        Development of the Environmental Protection Agency.
    (b) Definition of Greenhouse Gas.--In this Act, the term 
``greenhouse gas'' means any of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, 
sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons, and perfluorocarbons.

SEC. 5. TERMINATION OF CERTAIN EPA PROGRAMS.

    (a) National Clean Diesel Campaign.--The Environmental Protection 
Agency's National Clean Diesel Campaign is hereby terminated.
    (b) Environmental Justice Programs.--The Environmental Protection 
Agency's environmental justice programs are hereby terminated.

SEC. 6. ELIMINATION OF EPA REGIONAL OFFICES.

     The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall 
discontinue operation and maintenance of the Environmental Protection 
Agency's State, regional, district, local, and other field offices, and 
activities carried out through those offices.

SEC. 7. DISPOSAL OR LEASING OF UNDERUTILIZED PROPERTY REQUIRED.

    (a) Disposal or Leasing Required.--The Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency shall dispose of or lease any property 
determined by the Office of Inspector General of the Environmental 
Protection Agency to be underutilized in the report entitled ``EPA Can 
Further Reduce Space in Under-Utilized Facilities'' dated February 20, 
2013.
    (b) Fair Market Value Requirement.--Real property sold pursuant to 
this section shall be sold at not less than the fair market value as 
determined by the Administrator. Costs associated with disposal may not 
exceed the fair market value of the property unless the Administrator 
approves incurring such costs.
    (c) Monetary Proceeds Requirement.--Real property may be sold 
pursuant to this section only if the property will generate monetary 
proceeds to the Federal Government, as provided in subsection (b). 
Disposal of real property pursuant to this section may not include any 
exchange, trade, transfer, acquisition of like-kind property, or other 
non-cash transaction as part of the disposal.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as terminating or in any way limiting authorities that are 
otherwise available to agencies under other provisions of law to 
dispose of Federal real property, except as provided in subsection (e).
    (e) Exemption From Certain Requirements.--Any expedited disposal of 
a real property conducted pursuant to this section shall not be subject 
to--
            (1) subchapter IV of chapter 5 of title 40, United States 
        Code;
            (2) sections 550 and 553 of title 40, United States Code;
            (3) section 501 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 11411);
            (4) any other provision of law authorizing the no-cost 
        conveyance of real property owned by the Federal Government; or
            (5) any congressional notification requirement other than 
        that in section 545 of title 40, United States Code.
                                 <all>
