[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2367 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2367

  To amend title 10, United States Code, to authorize aliens who are 
 covered by certain immigration policies and who otherwise satisfy the 
    requirements for admission to a military service academy to be 
     appointed to and attend a military service academy and, upon 
  graduation, to be appointed as a commissioned officer in the Armed 
                                Forces.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 15, 2015

 Mr. Castro of Texas introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                   to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title 10, United States Code, to authorize aliens who are 
 covered by certain immigration policies and who otherwise satisfy the 
    requirements for admission to a military service academy to be 
     appointed to and attend a military service academy and, upon 
  graduation, to be appointed as a commissioned officer in the Armed 
                                Forces.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Opportunity for Military Academies 
and Readiness Act''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORITY TO APPOINT CERTAIN ALIENS WHO ARE UNLAWFULLY PRESENT 
              IN THE UNITED STATES AS CADETS AND MIDSHIPMEN AT MILITARY 
              SERVICE ACADEMIES.

    (a) United States Military Academy.--Section 4346 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e)(1) An alien who, at the time of application for admission to 
the Academy, possesses an employment authorization document issued by 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services under the 
requirements of the Department of Homeland Security policy dated June 
15, 2012, and entitled `Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals' (DACA) 
or the memorandum dated November 20, 2014, and entitled `Exercising 
Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the 
United States and Children and with Respect to Certain Individuals Who 
are Parents of U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents' and who otherwise 
satisfies the requirements for admission to the Academy, other than the 
United States citizenship requirement, may be--
            ``(A) appointed as a cadet and attend the Academy; and
            ``(B) upon graduation, be appointed as a commissioned 
        officer in the armed forces.
    ``(2) Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to alter the 
process prescribed by sections 328, 329, and 329A of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1439, 1440, 1440) by which a person may 
naturalize through service in the armed forces.''.
    (b) Naval Academy.--Section 6958 of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e)(1) An alien who, at the time of application for admission to 
the Naval Academy, possesses an employment authorization document 
issued by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services under the 
requirements of the Department of Homeland Security policy dated June 
15, 2012, and entitled `Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals' (DACA) 
or the memorandum dated November 20, 2014, and entitled `Exercising 
Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the 
United States and Children and with Respect to Certain Individuals Who 
are Parents of U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents' and who otherwise 
satisfies the requirements for admission to the Academy, other than the 
United States citizenship requirement, may be--
            ``(A) appointed as a midshipman and attend the Academy; and
            ``(B) upon graduation, be appointed as a commissioned 
        officer in the armed forces.
    ``(2) Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to alter the 
process prescribed by sections 328, 329, and 329A of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1439, 1440, 1440) by which a person may 
naturalize through service in the armed forces.''.
    (c) Air Force Academy.--Section 9346 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e)(1) An alien who, at the time of application for admission to 
the Academy, possesses an employment authorization document issued by 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services under the 
requirements of the Department of Homeland Security policy dated June 
15, 2012, and entitled `Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals' (DACA) 
or the memorandum dated November 20, 2014, and entitled `Exercising 
Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the 
United States and Children and with Respect to Certain Individuals Who 
are Parents of U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents' and who otherwise 
satisfies the requirements for admission to the Academy, other than the 
United States citizenship requirement, may be--
            ``(A) appointed as a cadet and attend the Academy; and
            ``(B) upon graduation, be appointed as a commissioned 
        officer in the armed forces.
    ``(2) Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to alter the 
process prescribed by sections 328, 329, and 329A of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1439, 1440, 1440) by which a person may 
naturalize through service in the armed forces.''.
                                 <all>
