[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 418 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 418

To support and encourage the health and well-being of elementary school 
 and secondary school students by enhancing school physical education 
                         and health education.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            February 9, 2015

   Mr. Udall introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
  referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To support and encourage the health and well-being of elementary school 
 and secondary school students by enhancing school physical education 
                         and health education.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Promoting Health as Youth Skills in 
Classrooms and Life Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Childhood obesity has reached epidemic proportions in 
        the United States.
            (2) Researchers estimate that the medical costs of the 
        obesity epidemic in the United States may total 
        $270,000,000,000 annually.
            (3) More than one-third of children and adolescents are 
        estimated to be overweight or obese.
            (4) Of all United States deaths from major chronic disease, 
        23 percent are linked to sedentary lifestyles that now begin at 
        childhood.
            (5) Overweight adolescents have a 70- to 80-percent chance 
        of becoming overweight adults, increasing their risk for 
        chronic disease, disability, and death.
            (6) Studies show that children born today, for the first 
        time in 2 centuries, have a shorter life expectancy than their 
        parents.
            (7) According to the Centers for Disease Control and 
        Prevention, in 2006--
                    (A) 1 in 5 students in grades 9-12 seriously 
                considers suicide;
                    (B) 1 in 3 12th graders, 1 in 4 10th graders, and 1 
                in 10 8th graders binge drink; and
                    (C) 1 in 10 children suffer mental illness causing 
                some level of impairment.
            (8) Studies show that--
                    (A) students who receive social-psychological 
                support and prevention have improved academic 
                achievement;
                    (B) instruction in personal and social skills 
                improves decisionmaking and reduces risky health 
                behaviors; and
                    (C) comprehensive programs linking rigorous 
                instruction with health, education, social services, 
                and health services in schools can reduce absenteeism.
            (9) The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
        recommends that students receive a minimum of 50 hours of 
        health education per year in order to ensure health literacy.
            (10) According to the Centers for Disease Control and 
        Prevention, only 6.4 percent of elementary schools, 20.6 
        percent of middle schools, and 35.8 percent of high schools 
        require health instruction in all 14 recommended health topics 
        and only 3.8 percent of elementary schools, 7.8 percent of 
        middle schools, and 2.1 percent of high schools provide daily 
        physical education or its equivalent.
            (11) The Institute of Medicine in 2004 reported that 
        enhanced school health education programs are essential to 
        developing a health literate society in the United States as 
        the Nation faces increasing health care challenges. In 2013, 
        the Institute of Medicine recommended elevating physical 
        education to a ``core subject'' in an effort to combat 
        childhood obesity.
            (12) According to the Centers for Disease Control and 
        Prevention, studies suggest that physical activity can impact 
        cognitive skills and attitudes, and important components of 
        improved academic performance, including enhanced concentration 
        and attention as well as improved classroom behavior.
            (13) The White House Task Force on Childhood Obesity Report 
        recommends increasing the quality and frequency of sequential, 
        age, and developmentally appropriate physical education for all 
        students, taught by certified physical education teachers.
            (14) The Society of Health and Physical Educators 
        recommends that elementary school students receive 150 minutes 
        per week of physical education and that middle school and high 
        school students receive 225 minutes per week of physical 
        education.
            (15) The American school system is already situated to 
        reach 50,000,000 children and youth to provide the health and 
        physical education they need and a place for them to engage in 
        these behaviors, such as nutritious eating and participating in 
        physical activity.
            (16) Military readiness is vulnerable, as almost 30 percent 
        of 17-24 year olds are too overweight to serve in the U.S. 
        military.
            (17) Physical education and health education are critical 
        to combating these harmful trends and are key components to 
        educating the whole child.

SEC. 3. HEALTH EDUCATION AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 9101(11) of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801(11)) is amended by striking ``and 
geography'' and inserting ``geography, physical education, and health 
education''.
    (b) Assessments.--Section 1111(b)(3) of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6311(b)(3)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) Assessments for health education and physical 
                education.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
                Act, each State shall determine the most feasible 
                measure for assessing students in health education and 
                physical education, including the use of adaptive 
                assessments, to measure student knowledge and 
                performance according to State standards and 
                benchmarks.''.

SEC. 4. CAROL M. WHITE PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Carol M. White Physical Education Program (20 
U.S.C. 7261 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by striking section 5503 and inserting the following:

``SEC. 5503. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary is authorized to award grants 
to local educational agencies and community-based organizations to pay 
the Federal share of the costs of initiating, expanding, and improving 
physical education programs for kindergarten through 12th-grade 
students by--
            ``(1) providing materials, equipment, and support to enable 
        students to participate actively in physical education 
        activities; and
            ``(2) providing funds for staff and teacher training and 
        education.
    ``(b) Program Elements.--A physical education program funded under 
this subpart may provide for 1 or more of the following:
            ``(1) Fitness education and assessment to help students 
        understand, improve, or maintain their physical well-being.
            ``(2) Instruction in a variety of motor skills and physical 
        activities designed to enhance the physical, mental, and social 
        or emotional development of every student.
            ``(3) Development of, and instruction in, cognitive 
        concepts about motor skill and physical fitness that support a 
        lifelong healthy lifestyle.
            ``(4) Opportunities to develop positive social and 
        cooperative skills through physical activity participation.
            ``(5) Instruction in healthy eating habits and good 
        nutrition.
            ``(6) Opportunities for professional development for 
        teachers of physical education to stay abreast of the latest 
        research, issues, and trends in the field of physical 
        education.
    ``(c) Special Rule.--For the purpose of this subpart, 
extracurricular activities, such as team sports and Reserve Officers' 
Training Corps (ROTC) program activities, shall not be considered as 
part of the curriculum of a physical education program assisted under 
this subpart.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 5508. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subpart 
such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2016 and each of the 4 
succeeding fiscal years.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents in section 2 of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 5507 the following:

``Sec. 5508. Authorization of appropriations.''.
                                 <all>
