[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2687 Reported in Senate (RS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 411
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2687

To amend the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to improve plans 
    of safe care for infants affected by illegal substance abuse or 
  withdrawal symptoms, or a Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 15, 2016

  Mr. Casey (for himself, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Hatch, Mrs. 
Murray, and Ms. Collins) introduced the following bill; which was read 
 twice and referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
                                Pensions

                             April 4, 2016

              Reported by Mr. Alexander, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to improve plans 
    of safe care for infants affected by illegal substance abuse or 
  withdrawal symptoms, or a Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Plan of Safe Care 
Improvement Act''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 2. STATE PLANS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 106(b)(2)(B)(iii) of the Child Abuse Prevention 
and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)(2)(B)) is amended by striking 
clause (iii) and inserting the following:</DELETED>
                        <DELETED>    ``(iii) policies and procedures 
                        that require--</DELETED>
                                <DELETED>    ``(I) the development of a 
                                plan of safe care for an infant born 
                                and identified as being affected by 
                                illegal substance abuse or withdrawal 
                                symptoms or a Fetal Alcohol Spectrum 
                                Disorder; and</DELETED>
                                <DELETED>    ``(II) the development and 
                                implementation by the State of 
                                monitoring systems regarding the plan 
                                of safe care to--</DELETED>
                                        <DELETED>    ``(aa) ensure the 
                                        safety and well-being of 
                                        children;</DELETED>
                                        <DELETED>    ``(bb) address the 
                                        health, including mental 
                                        health, needs of the child and 
                                        family involved; and</DELETED>
                                        <DELETED>    ``(cc) determine 
                                        whether local entities are 
                                        capable of providing referrals 
                                        to and delivery of appropriate 
                                        services for the child and 
                                        family;''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 3. DATA REPORTS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    (a) In General.--Section 106(d) of the Child Abuse 
Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(d)) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(18) The number of infants for whom a plan of 
        safe care, as referred to in subsection (b)(2)(B)(iii), was 
        developed.''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Rule of Construction.--In section 802(b)(2) of the 
Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 
Stat 264), the reference to ``adding at the end'' shall be considered 
to refer to ``inserting after paragraph (16)''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 4. MONITORING.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 106 of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(g) Monitoring.--The Secretary shall conduct monitoring 
of States to ensure that each State is meeting the requirements of 
subsection (b)(2)(B)(iii) to improve outcomes among children who are 
most at risk for child abuse and neglect.''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 5. BEST PRACTICES FOR PLANS OF SAFE CARE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue guidance to 
States regarding the requirements and best practices for the 
development and implementation of plans of safe care, as referred to in 
section 106(b)(2)(B)(iii) of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)(2)(B)(iii)). In developing the guidance, the 
Secretary shall seek and take into consideration input from all 
appropriate offices within the Department of Health and Human Services, 
including the Administration for Children and Families, the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services, the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
Administration, and the National Institutes of Health, and from the 
Department of Education.</DELETED>

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Plan of Safe Care Improvement Act''.

SEC. 2. STATE PLANS.

    Section 106(b)(2)(B) of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)(2)(B)) is amended by striking clause (iii) and 
inserting the following:
                            ``(iii) policies and procedures that 
                        require--
                                    ``(I) the development of a 
                                multidisciplinary plan of safe care for 
                                an infant born and identified as being 
                                affected by substance abuse or 
                                withdrawal symptoms or a Fetal Alcohol 
                                Spectrum Disorder; and
                                    ``(II) the development and 
                                implementation by the State of 
                                monitoring systems regarding the plan 
                                of safe care to--
                                            ``(aa) ensure the safety 
                                        and well-being of children;
                                            ``(bb) address the health, 
                                        including mental health and 
                                        substance use disorder 
                                        treatment, needs of the child, 
                                        and of the family or affected 
                                        caregiver, involved; and
                                            ``(cc) determine whether 
                                        and to what extent local 
                                        entities are providing 
                                        referrals to and delivery of 
                                        appropriate services for the 
                                        child and family;''.

SEC. 3. DATA REPORTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 106(d) of the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(d)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(18) The total number of infants identified and the 
        number of infants for whom a plan of safe care, as referred to 
        in subsection (b)(2)(B)(iii), was developed.''.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--In section 802(b)(2) of the Justice for 
Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-22; 129 Stat 264), 
the reference to ``adding at the end'' shall be considered to refer to 
``inserting after paragraph (16)''.

SEC. 4. MONITORING.

    Section 106 of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 
U.S.C. 5106a) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Monitoring.--The Secretary shall conduct monitoring of States 
to ensure that each State's policies and procedures meet the 
requirements of clauses (ii) and (iii) of subsection (b)(2)(B), to 
improve outcomes among infants described in subsection 
(b)(2)(B)(iii)(I).''.

SEC. 5. BEST PRACTICES FOR PLANS OF SAFE CARE.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue guidance to States 
regarding the requirements and best practices for the development and 
implementation of plans of safe care, as referred to in section 
106(b)(2)(B)(iii) of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 
U.S.C. 5106a(b)(2)(B)(iii)). In developing the guidance, the Secretary 
shall seek and take into consideration input from all appropriate 
offices within the Department of Health and Human Services, including 
the Administration for Children and Families, the Centers for Medicare 
& Medicaid Services, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, and the 
National Institutes of Health, and from the Department of Education. In 
developing the guidance, the Secretary shall ensure that the guidance 
requirements are consistent with the guidance requirements under the 
Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858 et 
seq.), in all appropriate cases.
                                                       Calendar No. 411

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2687

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To amend the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to improve plans 
    of safe care for infants affected by illegal substance abuse or 
  withdrawal symptoms, or a Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 4, 2016

                       Reported with an amendment
