[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5258 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5258

 To require State and local law enforcement agencies to report arrests 
 for offenses that involve driving under the influence to the National 
 Crime Information Center as a condition of receiving the full amount 
that the State would otherwise receive under the Edward Byrne Memorial 
       Justice Assistance Grant Program, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 17, 2016

  Mr. Cohen (for himself, Mr. Chabot, and Mr. Nadler) introduced the 
  following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require State and local law enforcement agencies to report arrests 
 for offenses that involve driving under the influence to the National 
 Crime Information Center as a condition of receiving the full amount 
that the State would otherwise receive under the Edward Byrne Memorial 
       Justice Assistance Grant Program, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``DUI Reporting Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. REQUIRING STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES TO REPORT 
              ARRESTS FOR OFFENSES INVOLVING DRIVING UNDER THE 
              INFLUENCE TO THE NATIONAL CRIME INFORMATION CENTER AS A 
              CONDITION OF RECEIVING FUNDS UNDER THE EDWARD BYRNE 
              MEMORIAL JUSTICE ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--For any fiscal year, a State, and any unit of 
local government in that State, may not receive 20 percent of the 
amount that would otherwise be allocated to that State or unit of local 
government under the program under subpart 1 of part E of title I of 
the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3750 
et seq.), unless the State has in effect a law or policy that ensures 
all State and local law enforcement agencies are appropriately 
reporting arrests for offenses involving driving under the influence to 
the National Crime Information Center in accordance with such law or 
policy, and any rules made by the Attorney General pursuant to 
subsection (e).
    (b) Notice.--Not later than 60 days prior to the first day of a 
fiscal year, the Attorney General shall provide notice to the chief 
executive of a State that does not have in effect a law or policy 
described in subsection (a) that the amount that would otherwise be 
allocated to that State, and to any unit of local government in that 
State, under the program described in that subsection will be withheld 
and reduced in accordance with subsection (c).
    (c) Withholding and Reduction of Funds.--The amount that would 
otherwise be allocated to a State, and any unit of local government in 
the State, shall be deposited in an escrow account in the Treasury 
(which shall not accrue interest) for a period of 90 days beginning on 
the first day of the fiscal year if the State does not have in place a 
law or policy described in subsection (a). If the State implements such 
a law or policy prior to the conclusion of such 90-day period, that 
amount shall be made available for allocation to the State and units of 
local government in the State. If the State does not implement such a 
law or policy prior to the conclusion of such 90-day period, 80 percent 
of such amount shall be made available for allocation to the State and 
units of local government in the State.
    (d) Amounts Not Allocated.--After the conclusion of the 90-day 
period described in subsection (c), amounts not allocated to a State or 
a unit of local government under the program described in subsection 
(a) for the failure of the State to have in effect a law or policy 
described in subsection (a) shall be deposited in the general fund of 
the Treasury.
    (e) Rules.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Attorney General shall make rules to implement this 
section.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section, terms used have the meanings 
given those terms in section 901 of title I of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3791).
                                 <all>
