[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1818 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 426
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 1818

                          [Report No. 114-552]

 To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to States to 
streamline State requirements and procedures for veterans with military 
    emergency medical training to become civilian emergency medical 
                              technicians.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 15, 2015

 Mr. Kinzinger of Illinois (for himself and Mrs. Capps) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                                Commerce

                              May 10, 2016

Additional sponsors: Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Cohen, Ms. Titus, Mr. Marino, 
Mr. Burgess, Mr. Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania, 
Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Hanna, 
 Mr. Rangel, Mr. Farenthold, Ms. Slaughter, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Pocan, 
 Mr. Gibson, Ms. Esty, Mr. Quigley, Mr. Carter of Texas, Mr. Mooney of 
 West Virginia, Ms. Norton, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Latta, Ms. 
  Clark of Massachusetts, Mr. Walz, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. 
  Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Nugent, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Hurd of 
Texas, Mrs. Kirkpatrick, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Ms. McSally, Mr. Price 
 of North Carolina, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Katko, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Cole, Mrs. 
Comstock, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mr. Boustany, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Massie, 
  Mr. Takai, Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Peters, Mr. Calvert, Mrs. 
    Napolitano, Mr. Yoder, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. 
       Luetkemeyer, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. 
 Sensenbrenner, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Jenkins of West Virginia, Mr. Tipton, 
   Mr. Young of Iowa, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Pompeo, Mr. Heck of 
Nevada, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Neal, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. 
                        Paulsen, and Mr. Turner

                              May 10, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
 [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on April 
                               15, 2015]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to States to 
streamline State requirements and procedures for veterans with military 
    emergency medical training to become civilian emergency medical 
                              technicians.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veteran Emergency Medical Technician 
Support Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. ASSISTING VETERANS WITH MILITARY EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRAINING TO 
              MEET REQUIREMENTS FOR BECOMING CIVILIAN EMERGENCY MEDICAL 
              TECHNICIANS.

    Part B of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 243 
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 314 the following:

``SEC. 315. ASSISTING VETERANS WITH MILITARY EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRAINING 
              TO MEET REQUIREMENTS FOR BECOMING CIVILIAN EMERGENCY 
              MEDICAL TECHNICIANS.

    ``(a) Program.--The Secretary shall establish a program consisting 
of awarding demonstration grants to States to streamline State 
requirements and procedures in order to assist veterans who completed 
military emergency medical technician training while serving in the 
Armed Forces of the United States to meet certification, licensure, and 
other requirements applicable to becoming an emergency medical 
technician in the State.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--Amounts received as a demonstration grant 
under this section shall be used to prepare and implement a plan to 
streamline State requirements and procedures as described in subsection 
(a), including by--
            ``(1) determining the extent to which the requirements for 
        the education, training, and skill level of emergency medical 
        technicians in the State are equivalent to requirements for the 
        education, training, and skill level of military emergency 
        medical technicians; and
            ``(2) identifying methods, such as waivers, for military 
        emergency medical technicians to forgo or meet any such 
        equivalent State requirements.
    ``(c) Eligibility.--To be eligible for a grant under this section, 
a State shall demonstrate that the State has a shortage of emergency 
medical technicians.
    ``(d) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to the Congress an annual 
report on the program under this section.
    ``(e) Funding.--No additional funds are authorized to be 
appropriated for the purpose of carrying out this section. This section 
shall be carried out using amounts otherwise available for such 
purpose.''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 426

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 1818

                          [Report No. 114-552]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to States to 
streamline State requirements and procedures for veterans with military 
    emergency medical training to become civilian emergency medical 
                              technicians.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 10, 2016

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
