[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 380 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 380

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 28, 2015.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 427) to amend chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, to provide 
that major rules of the executive branch shall have no force or effect unless a 
joint resolution of approval is enacted into law. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on the Judiciary. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
the Judiciary now printed in the bill modified by the amendment printed in part 
A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. That 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order 
except those printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules. Each 
such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be 
offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, 
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, 
and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House 
or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments 
are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as 
may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  On any legislative day during the period from July 30, 2015, 
through September 7, 2015--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 4.  Each day during the period addressed by section 2 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the 
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546).
    Sec. 5.  Each day during the period addressed by section 2 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of 
rule XIII.
    Sec. 6.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of July 30, 
2015, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules as 
though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall consult with 
the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation of any matter for 
consideration pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 7.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of July 30, 2015.
    Sec. 8.  For purposes of the joint meeting to receive Pope Francis on 
September 24, 2015, only the following persons shall be admitted to the Hall of 
the House or rooms leading thereto:
     (a) Members of Congress and Members-elect.
    (b) The Delegates and the Resident Commissioner.
    (c) The President and Vice President of the United States.
    (d) Justices of the Supreme Court.
    (e) Elected officers of the House.
    (f) The Parliamentarian.
    (g) The Architect of the Capitol.
    (h) The Librarian of Congress.
    (i) The Secretary and Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate.
    (j) Heads of departments.
    (k) Other persons as designated by the Speaker.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
