[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3350 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 225
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3350

                          [Report No. 114-296]

 To require a terrorism threat assessment regarding the transportation 
 of chemical, biological, nuclear, and radiological materials through 
United States land borders and within the United States, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 29, 2015

Mr. Higgins (for himself, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, and Mr. King of 
  New York) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Homeland Security

                            October 20, 2015

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require a terrorism threat assessment regarding the transportation 
 of chemical, biological, nuclear, and radiological materials through 
United States land borders and within the United States, and for other 
                               purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Know the CBRN Terrorism Threats to 
Transportation Act''.

SEC. 2. TERRORISM THREAT ASSESSMENT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting 
through the Under Secretary of Intelligence and Analysis, shall conduct 
a terrorism threat assessment of the transportation of chemical, 
biological, nuclear, and radiological materials through United States 
land borders and within the United States.
    (b) Consultation.--In preparing the terrorism threat assessment 
required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary for Intelligence and 
Analysis shall consult with the Administrator of the Transportation 
Security Administration, the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection, and the heads of other Federal departments and agencies, as 
appropriate, to ensure that such terrorism threat assessment is 
informed by current information about homeland security threats.
    (c) Distribution.--Upon completion of the terrorism threat 
assessment required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary for 
Intelligence and Analysis shall disseminate such terrorism threat 
assessment to Federal partners, including the Department of 
Transportation and the Department of Energy, and State and local 
partners, including the National Network of Fusion Centers.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 225

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 3350

                          [Report No. 114-296]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To require a terrorism threat assessment regarding the transportation 
 of chemical, biological, nuclear, and radiological materials through 
United States land borders and within the United States, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 20, 2015

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
