[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2992 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2992

To award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the U.S. Merchant 
  Marine of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated and vital 
                      service during World War II.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              July 9, 2015

   Mrs. Brooks of Indiana (for herself and Ms. Hahn) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Financial 
                                Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To award a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the U.S. Merchant 
  Marine of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated and vital 
                      service during World War II.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Merchant Marine of World War II 
Congressional Gold Medal Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) 2015 marks the 70th anniversary of the Allied victory 
        in World War II and the restoration of peacetime across the 
        European and Pacific theaters.
            (2) The United States Merchant Marine was integral in 
        providing the link between domestic production and the fighting 
        forces overseas, providing combat equipment, fuel, food, 
        commodities, and raw materials to troops stationed overseas.
            (3) Fleet Admiral Ernest J. King acknowledged the 
        indispensability of the Merchant Marine to the victory in a 
        1945 letter stating that without their support, ``the Navy 
        could not have accomplished its mission''.
            (4) President and former Supreme Commander of the Allied 
        Forces, Dwight D. Eisenhower, acknowledged that ``through the 
        prompt delivery of supplies and equipment to our armed forces 
        overseas, and of cargoes representing economic and military aid 
        to friendly nations, the American Merchant Marine has 
        effectively helped to strengthen the forces of freedom 
        throughout the world''.
            (5) Military missions and war planning were contingent upon 
        the availability of resources and that the United States 
        Merchant Marine played a vital role in this regard, ensuring 
        the efficient and reliable transoceanic transport of military 
        equipment as well as both military and civilian personnel.
            (6) The United States Merchant Marine provided for the 
        successful transport of resources and personnel despite 
        consistent and ongoing exposure to enemy combatants from both 
        the air and the sea, such as enemy bomber squadrons, 
        submarines, and mines.
            (7) The efforts of the United States Merchant Marine were 
        not without sacrifices as they bore a higher per capita 
        casualty rate than any other branch of the military during the 
        war.
            (8) The United States Merchant Marine proved to be an 
        instrumental asset on untold occasions, participating in every 
        landing operation by the United States Marine Corps from 
        Guadalcanal to Iwo Jima as well as providing, for instance, the 
        bulk tonnage of material necessary for the invasion of Normandy 
        which ``would not have been possible without the Merchant 
        Marine'', as a 1944 New York Times article observed.
            (9) In also assessing their performance, General Dwight D. 
        Eisenhower stated, ``every man in this Allied command is quick 
        to express his admiration for the loyalty, courage, and 
        fortitude of the officers and men of the Merchant Marine. We 
        count upon their efficiency and their utter devotion to duty as 
        we do our own; they have never failed us''.
            (10) During a September 1944 speech, President Franklin D. 
        Roosevelt stated, the Merchant Marine has ``delivered the goods 
        when and where needed in every theater of operations and across 
        every ocean in the biggest, the most difficult, and dangerous 
        transportation job ever undertaken. As time goes on, there will 
        be greater public understanding of our merchant fleet's record 
        during this war.''.
            (11) The feats and accomplishments of the Merchant Marine 
        are deserving of broader public recognition.
            (12) The United States will be forever grateful and 
        indebted to the U.S. Merchant Marine for their effective, 
        reliable, and courageous transport of goods and resources in 
        enemy territory throughout theaters of every variety in World 
        War II; that these goods and resources saved thousands of lives 
        and enabled the Allied Powers to claim victory in World War II.
            (13) The Congressional Gold Medal will be an appropriate 
        way to shed further light on the service of the Merchant Marine 
        in World War II and the instrumental role they played in 
        winning World War II.

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Award Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of Representatives 
and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate 
arrangements for the award, on behalf of the Congress, of a single gold 
medal of appropriate design to the U.S. Merchant Marine of World War 
II, in recognition of their dedicated and vital service during World 
War II.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purposes of the award referred to 
in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter referred to 
as the ``Secretary'') shall strike the gold medal with suitable 
emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.
    (c) American Merchant Marine Museum.--
            (1) In general.--Following the award of the gold medal in 
        honor of the U.S. Merchant Marine, the gold medal shall be 
        given to the American Merchant Marine Museum, where it will be 
        available for display as appropriate and available for 
        research.

SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    Under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, the 
Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal 
struck under section 3, at a price sufficient to cover the costs of the 
medals, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and 
overhead expenses.

SEC. 5. STATUS OF MEDALS.

    (a) National Medals.--Medals struck pursuant to this Act are 
national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States 
Code.
    (b) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, 
United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.
                                 <all>
