[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2460 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2460

 To amend title 10, United States Code, to require reports to Congress 
on matters of the military departments and Defense Agencies in support 
of the biennial strategic workforce plans of the Department of Defense.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            January 21, 2016

  Mr. Rounds introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
              referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 10, United States Code, to require reports to Congress 
on matters of the military departments and Defense Agencies in support 
of the biennial strategic workforce plans of the Department of Defense.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Defense Acquisition Workforce Human 
Capital Management Improvement Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. REPORTS TO CONGRESS ON MATTERS OF MILITARY DEPARTMENTS AND 
              DEFENSE AGENCIES IN SUPPORT OF BIENNIAL STRATEGIC 
              WORKFORCE PLANS.

    (a) Element in Strategic Workforce Plan on Use of Special Hiring 
Authorities.--Subsection (b)(1) of section 115b of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(E) the use, if any, of special hiring authorities made 
        by the Secretaries of the military departments and the heads of 
        the Defense agencies to address the matters described in this 
        paragraph, and a description of the additional authorities 
        required to support the enhancement of the civilian employee 
        workforce of the Department.''.
    (b) Transmittal to Congress of Reports of Military Departments and 
Defense Agencies to Secretary of Defense.--Subsection (g) of such 
section is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``The Secretary of Defense shall transmit to Congress each report 
submitted to the Secretary pursuant to this subsection.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to plans submitted to Congress by the Secretary of Defense 
under subsection (a) of section 115b of title 10, United States Code, 
and reports submitted to the Secretary of Defense by the Secretaries of 
the military departments and the heads of the Defense Agencies pursuant 
to subsection (g) of such section after the date.
                                 <all>
