[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 803 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 House Calendar No. 132
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 803

                          [Report No. 114-666]

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4361) to amend section 
3554 of title 44, United States Code, to provide for enhanced security 
 of Federal information systems, and for other purposes, and providing 
           for consideration of motions to suspend the rules.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              July 5, 2016

   Mr. Woodall, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4361) to amend section 
3554 of title 44, United States Code, to provide for enhanced security 
 of Federal information systems, and for other purposes, and providing 
           for consideration of motions to suspend the rules.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4361) to amend section 3554 
of title 44, United States Code, to provide for enhanced security of 
Federal information systems, and for other purposes. The first reading 
of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined 
to the bill and amendments specified in this section and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. 
After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform now printed in the bill, it shall be in order to consider as an 
original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule 
an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of 
Rules Committee Print 114-59. That amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment 
to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order 
except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only 
in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of 
July 7, 2016, or July 8, 2016, for the Speaker to entertain motions 
that the House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV, 
relating to a measure addressing the Federal Aviation Administration.
                                                 House Calendar No. 132

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 803

                          [Report No. 114-666]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4361) to amend section 
3554 of title 44, United States Code, to provide for enhanced security 
 of Federal information systems, and for other purposes, and providing 
           for consideration of motions to suspend the rules.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              July 5, 2016

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
