[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5193 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5193

To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to make improvements in the 
    rules related to qualified tuition programs and qualified ABLE 
                               programs.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 11, 2016

Ms. Jenkins of Kansas introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                   to the Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to make improvements in the 
    rules related to qualified tuition programs and qualified ABLE 
                               programs.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``529 and ABLE Account Improvement Act 
of 2016''.

SEC. 2. EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS TO QUALIFIED TUITION PROGRAMS AND 
              QUALIFIED ABLE PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 132 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``or'' at the end of 
paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (8) and 
inserting ``, or'', and by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(9) qualified tuition program and qualified ABLE program 
        contributions.''.
    (b) Qualified Tuition Program and Qualified ABLE Program 
Contributions Defined.--Section 132 of such Code is amended by 
redesignating subsection (o) as subsection (p) and inserting after 
subsection (n) the following new subsection:
    ``(o) Qualified Tuition Program and Qualified ABLE Program 
Contributions Defined.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this section, the term 
        `qualified tuition and qualified ABLE program contributions' 
        means contributions (including matching contributions) made by 
        an employer directly to a qualified tuition program (as 
        described in section 529) or qualified ABLE program (as 
        described in section 529A) designated by an employee if--
                    ``(A) such contribution is made to an account under 
                such program for which the designated beneficiary is 
                the employee or a member of the family of the employee 
                (within the meaning of section 529(e)(2)), and
                    ``(B) such contribution is made in connection with 
                a qualified payroll deduction contribution program 
                established by the employer.
            ``(2) Qualified payroll deduction contribution program.--
        For purposes of this subsection, the term `qualified payroll 
        deduction contribution program' means a program established by 
        an employer--
                    ``(A) under which employees may elect to make 
                contributions to accounts described in paragraph (1)(A) 
                which reduce the amount of wages received directly by 
                such employee by the amount of such contribution, and
                    ``(B) which is made available on substantially the 
                same terms to each member of a group of employees which 
                is defined under a reasonable classification set up by 
                the employer which does not discriminate in favor of 
                highly compensated employees (as defined in section 
                414(q)).
            ``(3) Limitation on exclusion.--The amount of qualified 
        tuition and qualified ABLE program contributions which may be 
        excluded from gross income under subsection (a)(9) with respect 
        to any employee shall not exceed $100 in any calendar year.
            ``(4) Nondiscrimination rule for employer contributions.--
        Subsection (a)(9) shall only apply to contributions provided 
        with respect to a highly compensated employee if such 
        contributions meet the requirements of paragraph (2)(B).
            ``(5) Inflation adjustment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of any taxable year 
                beginning in a calendar year after 2016, the $100 
                amount contained in paragraph (3) shall be increased by 
                an amount equal to--
                            ``(i) such dollar amount, multiplied by
                            ``(ii) the cost-of-living adjustment 
                        determined under section 1(f)(3) for the 
                        calendar year in which the taxable year begins, 
                        determined by substituting `calendar year 2015' 
                        for `calendar year 1992' in subparagraph (B) 
                        thereof.
                    ``(B) Rounding.--Any increase determined under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be rounded to the nearest 
                multiple of $25.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to contributions made after December 31, 2016.

SEC. 3. TAX CREDIT FOR SMALL EMPLOYER COSTS OF ESTABLISHING DIRECT 
              PAYROLL DEDUCTION INTO QUALIFIED TUITION PROGRAMS AND 
              QUALIFIED ABLE PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 45E of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Application to Programs for Payroll Deduction Contributions 
to Qualified Tuition Programs and Qualified ABLE Programs.--In the case 
of a qualified payroll deduction contribution program (as defined in 
section 132(o)(2)) established by an employer--
            ``(1) such program shall be treated as an eligible employer 
        plan for purposes of this section,
            ``(2) this section (including the limitation of subsection 
        (b)) shall be applied separately with respect to such programs 
        and any other eligible employer plans of the employer, and
            ``(3) subsection (d)(1)(A)(ii) shall be applied by 
        substituting `education' for `retirement-related education'.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) The heading for section 45E of such Code is amended by 
        striking ``pension''.
            (2) The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of 
        subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 45E and inserting the following 
        new item:

``Sec. 45E. Small employer plan startup costs.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to costs paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 4. EXEMPTIONS FROM ADDITIONAL TAX FOR CERTAIN DISTRIBUTIONS FROM 
              QUALIFIED TUITION PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 529(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 is amended by striking the last sentence and inserting the 
following: ``This paragraph shall not apply to the extent that--
                    ``(A) a payment or distribution is contributed to 
                an individual retirement plan of the account owner or 
                the designated beneficiary with respect to the calendar 
                year in which the payment or distribution is received,
                    ``(B) a payment or distribution is used (within 90 
                days of the payment or distribution) to make a payment 
                of interest or principal on a qualified education loan 
                (as defined in section 222(d)(1)) on behalf of the 
                designated beneficiary or a member of the family of 
                such designated beneficiary within the meaning of 
                section 529(e)(2)), or
                    ``(C) the recipient of a payment or distribution 
                makes (within 90 days of the receipt of the payment or 
                distribution) a contribution to an organization 
                described in section 170(b)(1)(A) (other than any 
                organization described in section 509(a)(3) or any fund 
                or account described in section 4966(d)(2)), but only 
                if--
                            ``(i) a deduction for the entire payment or 
                        distribution is allowable under section 170, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) the total payments and distributions 
                        taken into account under this subparagraph with 
                        respect to such recipient for any taxable year 
                        does not exceed $1,000.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to distributions after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 5. CLARIFICATION REGARDING INVESTMENT DIRECTION IN QUALIFIED 
              TUITION PROGRAMS AND QUALIFIED ABLE PROGRAMS.

    (a) Investment Direction in Qualified Tuition Programs.--Paragraph 
(4) of section 529(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended 
by adding at the end the following: ``For purposes of this paragraph, 
rebalancing investments among broad-based investment strategies 
established under the program shall not be treated as investment 
direction by a contributor or designated beneficiary unless the 
specific investments within those broad-based strategies are directed 
by the contributor or designated beneficiary.''.
    (b) Investment Direction in Qualified ABLE Programs.--Paragraph (4) 
of section 529A(b) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the 
following: ``For purposes of this paragraph, rebalancing investments 
among broad-based investment strategies established under the program 
shall not be treated as investment direction by a designated 
beneficiary unless the specific investments within those broad-based 
strategies are directed by the designated beneficiary.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to calendar years beginning after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 6. ROLLOVERS BETWEEN QUALIFIED TUITION PROGRAMS AND QUALIFIED ABLE 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) Rollovers From Qualified Tuition Programs to Qualified ABLE 
Programs.--Clause (i) of section 529(c)(3)(C) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``or'' at the end of subclause (I), 
by striking the period at the end of subclause (II) and inserting ``, 
or'', and by adding at the end the following new subclause:
                                    ``(III) to an ABLE account (as 
                                defined in section 529A(e)(6)) of the 
                                designated beneficiary or a member of 
                                the family of the designated 
                                beneficiary.
                        Subclause (III) shall not apply to so much of a 
                        distribution which, when added to all other 
                        contributions made to the ABLE account for the 
                        taxable year, exceeds the limitation under 
                        section 529A(b)(2)(B).''.
    (b) Rollovers From Qualified ABLE Programs to Qualified Tuition 
Programs.--Clause (i) of section 529A(c)(1)(C) of such Code is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``such payment or distribution, into 
        another'' and inserting ``such payment or distribution--
                                    ``(I) into another'';
            (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``, 
        or'', and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subclause:
                                    ``(II) to a qualified tuition 
                                program (as described in section 529) 
                                for the benefit of the same designated 
                                beneficiary or a member of the family 
                                of such designated beneficiary.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to distributions after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
