[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5816 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5816

   To suspend, and subsequently terminate, the admission of certain 
refugees, to examine the impact on the national security of the United 
    States of admitting refugees, to examine the costs of providing 
         benefits to such individuals, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 14, 2016

 Mr. Babin (for himself, Mr. Abraham, Mrs. Black, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. 
   Brady of Texas, Mr. Brat, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Burgess, Mr. 
 Byrne, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
 Gohmert, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Gowdy, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Harper, Mr. Harris, 
Mr. Huelskamp, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. Jordan, Mr. King of Iowa, 
Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Meadows, Mrs. Miller of Michigan, Mr. Neugebauer, Mr. 
 Olson, Mr. Perry, Mr. Pittenger, Mr. Posey, Mr. Ross, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. 
Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Walker, 
 Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Zinke, Mr. Carter of Georgia, 
   Mr. Fleming, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. 
  Marchant, and Mr. Sanford) introduced the following bill; which was 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To suspend, and subsequently terminate, the admission of certain 
refugees, to examine the impact on the national security of the United 
    States of admitting refugees, to examine the costs of providing 
         benefits to such individuals, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Resettlement Accountability 
National Security Prioritization Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION OF ADMISSION OF CERTAIN REFUGEES.

    (a) Suspension.--Beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
Act, and ending on the date that is 4 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security may only 
admit into the United States a covered alien following the enactment of 
a joint resolution which gives the Secretary authority to admit such 
aliens, the matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows: 
``That Congress approves of the admission of covered aliens (as such 
term is defined in section 2 of the Resettlement Accountability 
National Security Prioritization Act of 2016 for a period beginning on 
the date of the enactment of this resolution, and ending on the date 
that is 4 years after the date of the enactment of the Resettlement 
Accountability National Security Prioritization Act of 2016.''.
    (b) Termination.--Beginning on the date that is 4 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, no covered alien may be admitted to 
the United States.
    (c) Covered Alien Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
alien'' means an alien applying for admission to the United States as a 
refugee who--
            (1) is a national of Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, 
        Syria, or Yemen; or
            (2) has no nationality and whose last habitual residence 
        was in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Syria, or Yemen.

SEC. 3. REPORTS.

    (a) Report on National Security.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
United States shall submit to Congress a report on the impact on the 
national security of the United States of admitting aliens under 
section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1157).
    (b) Report on the Cost of Providing Benefits to Refugees.--Not 
later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a 
report that includes, for the 10-year period preceding the date of the 
enactment of this Act, for aliens admitted into the United States under 
section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1157), the 
following information:
            (1) The average duration for which such an alien received 
        benefits under a program described in section 4.
            (2) The percentage of such aliens who received benefits 
        under a program described in section 4.
            (3) The cost, per year, to each program described in 
        section 4 for such aliens.
            (4) The number of such aliens who paid Federal income tax 
        or Federal employment tax during the first year after being 
        admitted to the United States.
            (5) The cost, per year, to the program described in 
        paragraph (5) of section 4 for such aliens.
            (6) The number and percentage of such aliens who received 
        benefits under a program described in section 4--
                    (A) 2 years after being admitted to the United 
                States;
                    (B) 5 years after being admitted to the United 
                States; and
                    (C) 10 years after being admitted to the United 
                States.
            (7) The cost, per year, to the Federal Government, to State 
        governments, and to units of local government of providing 
        other benefits and services, directly or indirectly, to such 
        aliens.
            (8) The cost, per year, to the Federal Government, to State 
        governments, and to units of local government of admitting such 
        aliens, other than the cost described in paragraph (7).

SEC. 4. BENEFIT PROGRAMS DESCRIBED.

    The programs described under this section are as follows:
            (1) The Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.).
            (2) The Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.).
            (3) Disability insurance benefits under title II of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 402 et seq.).
            (4) The supplemental nutrition assistance program under the 
        Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.).
            (5) Rental assistance under section 8 of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
                                 <all>
