[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3779 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 617
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3779

                          [Report No. 114-789]

    To restrict the inclusion of social security account numbers on 
    documents sent by mail by the Federal Government, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 21, 2015

 Mr. Valadao (for himself, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Knight, Mr. 
   Nolan, Mr. Young of Iowa, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Joyce, Mr. 
Royce, Mr. Cook, Mr. Kinzinger of Illinois, Mr. Costa, Mr. McClintock, 
 Ms. Sinema, Mr. Murphy of Florida, Mr. Jones, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Denham, 
 and Mr. DeSaulnier) introduced the following bill; which was referred 
          to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform

                           September 26, 2016

   Additional sponsors: Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Amodei, Mr. Rodney Davis of 
Illinois, Mr. Hanna, Mr. Olson, Mr. Miller of Florida, Mr. Rangel, Mrs. 
 Kirkpatrick, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. LaMalfa, Ms. Jenkins of Kansas, Mr. 
Hastings, Mr. Collins of New York, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. 
Rooney of Florida, Mr. Curbelo of Florida, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. 
 Latta, Mr. Forbes, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Garrett, Mr. Honda, 
Mr. Bishop of Michigan, Ms. Norton, Mrs. Comstock, Mr. Brat, Mr. Allen, 
Mr. Poliquin, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Peters, Mr. 
 Costello of Pennsylvania, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Nunes, Mr. 
   Farr, Mr. Barr, Miss Rice of New York, Mr. Kilmer, Mrs. Roby, Mr. 
                 Pocan, Mrs. Lawrence, and Mrs. Bustos

                           September 26, 2016

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To restrict the inclusion of social security account numbers on 
    documents sent by mail by the Federal Government, and for other 
                               purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. RESTRICTION OF SSNS ON DOCUMENTS SENT BY MAIL.

    (a) In General.--No department or agency of the Federal Government 
may include the social security account number of any individual on any 
document sent by mail unless the head of such department or agency 
determines that the inclusion of such social security number on such 
document is necessary.
    (b) Regulations.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the head of each department and agency of the 
Federal Government shall issue regulations specifying the circumstances 
under which inclusion of a social security account number on a document 
sent by mail is necessary. Such regulations shall include--
            (1) instructions for the partial redaction of social 
        security account numbers whenever feasible; and
            (2) a requirement that social security account numbers not 
        be visible on the outside of any package sent by mail.
    (c) Effective Date.--This Act shall apply with respect to documents 
sent by mail on or after the date that is 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 617

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 3779

                          [Report No. 114-789]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

    To restrict the inclusion of social security account numbers on 
    documents sent by mail by the Federal Government, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 26, 2016

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
