[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3839 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 553
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3839

                      [Report No. 114-714, Part I]

  To transfer administrative jurisdiction over certain Bureau of Land 
Management land from the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of 
 Veterans Affairs for inclusion in the Black Hills National Cemetery, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 27, 2015

  Mrs. Noem introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
  Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
 Veterans' Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

                           September 6, 2016

   Reported from the Committee on Natural Resources with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

                           September 6, 2016

    The Committee on Veterans' Affairs discharged; committed to the 
 Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to 
                               be printed
[For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on October 
                               27, 2015]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To transfer administrative jurisdiction over certain Bureau of Land 
Management land from the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of 
 Veterans Affairs for inclusion in the Black Hills National Cemetery, 
                        and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    The Act may be cited as the ``Black Hills National Cemetery 
Boundary Expansion Act''.

SEC. 2. WITHDRAWAL AND TRANSFER OF PUBLIC LAND FOR CEMETERY USE.

    (a) Withdrawal and Transfer.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
public lands described in subsection (b) are hereby--
            (1) withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the 
        public land laws, including the mining laws, the mineral 
        leasing laws, and the geothermal leasing laws, for as long as 
        the lands remain under the administrative jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs;
            (2) deemed property as defined in section 102(9) of title 
        40, United States Code, for as long as the lands remain under 
        the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs; and
            (3) transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs for use as national cemeteries 
        under chapter 24 of title 38, United States Code.
    (b) Land Description.--The public lands withdrawn, deemed property, 
and transferred under subsection (a) are the approximately 200 acres of 
land adjacent to Black Hills National Cemetery, South Dakota, generally 
depicted as ``Proposed National Cemetery Expansion'' on the map 
entitled ``Proposed Expansion of Black Hills National Cemetery - South 
Dakota'' and dated September 28, 2015, except the land located within 
100 feet of the centerline of the Centennial Trail (which runs along 
the northern boundary of the `Proposed National Cemetery Expansion') 
and which is located south of that Trail.
    (c) Boundary Modification.--The boundary of the Black Hills 
National Cemetery is hereby modified to include the public lands 
identified in subsection (b).
    (d) Modification of Public Land Order.--Public Land Order 2112, 
dated June 6, 1960 (25 Fed. Reg. 5243), is modified to exclude the 
lands identified in subsection (b).

SEC. 3. LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) Preparation of Legal Descriptions.--As soon as practicable 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall publish in the Federal Register a notice containing the 
legal descriptions of the public lands withdrawn, deemed property, and 
transferred under section 2(a).
    (b) Legal Effect.--The legal descriptions prepared under subsection 
(a) shall have the same force and effect as if the legal descriptions 
were included in this Act, except that the Secretary of the Interior 
may correct any clerical and typographical errors in the legal 
descriptions.
    (c) Conflict Between Map and Legal Description.--In the case of a 
conflict between the map referred to in section 2(b) and the legal 
descriptions prepared under subsection (a), the map shall control.
    (d) Availability.--Copies of the map referred to in section 2(b) 
and the legal descriptions prepared under subsection (a) shall be 
available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of--
            (1) the Bureau of Land Management; and
            (2) the National Cemetery Administration.
    (e) Costs.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall reimburse the 
Secretary of the Interior for reasonable costs incurred by the 
Secretary of the Interior in implementing this section, including the 
costs of any surveys.

SEC. 4. RESTORATION TO PUBLIC LANDS FOR NON-CEMETERY USE.

    (a) Notice and Effect.--Upon a determination by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs that all or a portion of the lands withdrawn, deemed 
property, and transferred under section 2 shall not be used for 
cemetery purposes, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall notify the 
Secretary of the Interior of such determination. Subject to subsections 
(b) and (c), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall transfer 
administrative jurisdiction of the lands subject to such notice to the 
Secretary of the Interior.
    (b) Decontamination.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall be 
responsible for costs of any decontamination of the lands subject to a 
notice under subsection (a) determined by the Secretary of the Interior 
to be necessary for the lands to be restored to the public lands.
    (c) Restoration to the Public Lands.--The lands subject to a notice 
under subsection (a) shall only be restored to the public lands upon 
acceptance by the Secretary of the Interior and a determination by the 
Secretary of the Interior that such lands are suitable for restoration 
to the public lands and operation of one or more of the public land 
laws.
    (d) Opening Order.--If the Secretary of the Interior accepts the 
lands subject to such a notice and determines that the lands are 
suitable for restoration, in whole or in part, the Secretary of the 
Interior may open the lands to operation of one or more of the public 
land laws and may issue an order to that effect.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 553

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 3839

                      [Report No. 114-714, Part I]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

  To transfer administrative jurisdiction over certain Bureau of Land 
Management land from the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of 
 Veterans Affairs for inclusion in the Black Hills National Cemetery, 
                        and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 6, 2016

   Reported from the Committee on Natural Resources with an amendment

                           September 6, 2016

    The Committee on Veterans' Affairs discharged; committed to the 
 Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to 
                               be printed
