[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5388 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5388

 To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide for innovative 
           research and development, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 7, 2016

  Mr. Ratcliffe (for himself and Mr. McCaul) introduced the following 
     bill; which was referred to the Committee on Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide for innovative 
           research and development, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Support for Rapid Innovation Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.

    (a) Cybersecurity Research and Development.--
            (1) In general.--Title III of the Homeland Security Act of 
        2002 (6 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new section:

``SEC. 319. CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    ``(a) In General.--The Under Secretary for Science and Technology 
shall support the research, development, testing, evaluation, and 
transition of cybersecurity technologies, including fundamental 
research to improve the sharing of information, analytics, and 
methodologies related to cybersecurity risks and incidents, consistent 
with current law.
    ``(b) Activities.--The research and development supported under 
subsection (a) shall serve the components of the Department and shall--
            ``(1) advance the development and accelerate the deployment 
        of more secure information systems;
            ``(2) improve and create technologies for detecting attacks 
        or intrusions, including real-time continuous diagnostics and 
        real-time analytic technologies;
            ``(3) improve and create mitigation and recovery 
        methodologies, including techniques and policies for real-time 
        containment of attacks, and development of resilient networks 
        and information systems;
            ``(4) support, in coordination with non-Federal entities, 
        the review of source code that underpins critical 
        infrastructure information systems;
            ``(5) develop and support infrastructure and tools to 
        support cybersecurity research and development efforts, 
        including modeling, testbeds, and data sets for assessment of 
        new cybersecurity technologies;
            ``(6) assist the development and support of technologies to 
        reduce vulnerabilities in industrial control systems; and
            ``(7) develop and support cyber forensics and attack 
        attribution capabilities.
    ``(c) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the Under 
Secretary for Science and Technology shall coordinate activities with--
            ``(1) the Under Secretary appointed pursuant to section 
        103(a)(1)(H);
            ``(2) the heads of other relevant Federal departments and 
        agencies, as appropriate; and
            ``(3) industry and academia.
    ``(d) Transition to Practice.--The Under Secretary for Science and 
Technology shall support projects carried out under this title through 
the full life cycle of such projects, including research, development, 
testing, evaluation, pilots, and transitions. The Under Secretary shall 
identify mature technologies that address existing or imminent 
cybersecurity gaps in public or private information systems and 
networks of information systems, identify and support necessary 
improvements identified during pilot programs and testing and 
evaluation activities, and introduce new cybersecurity technologies 
throughout the homeland security enterprise through partnerships and 
commercialization. The Under Secretary shall target federally funded 
cybersecurity research that demonstrates a high probability of 
successful transition to the commercial market within two years and 
that is expected to have a notable impact on the public or private 
information systems and networks of information systems.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Cybersecurity risk.--The term `cybersecurity risk' 
        has the meaning given such term in section 227.
            ``(2) Homeland security enterprise.--The term `homeland 
        security enterprise' means relevant governmental and 
        nongovernmental entities involved in homeland security, 
        including Federal, State, local, and tribal government 
        officials, private sector representatives, academics, and other 
        policy experts.
            ``(3) Incident.--The term `incident' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 227.
            ``(4) Information system.--The term `information system' 
        has the meaning given such term in section 3502(8) of title 44, 
        United States Code.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents in section 
        1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by 
        inserting after the item relating to section 318 the following 
        new item:

``Sec. 319. Cybersecurity research and development.''.
    (b) Research and Development Projects.--Section 831 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``2016'' and inserting ``2020'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking the last 
                sentence; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3) Prior approval.--In any case in which the head of a 
        component or office of the Department seeks to utilize the 
        authority under this section, such head shall first receive 
        prior approval from the Secretary by providing to the Secretary 
        a proposal that includes the rationale for the utilization of 
        such authority, the funds to be spent on the use of such 
        authority, and the expected outcome for each project that is 
        the subject of the use of such authority. In such a case, the 
        authority for evaluating the proposal may not be delegated by 
        the Secretary to anyone other than the Under Secretary for 
        Management.'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``2016'' and inserting 
                ``2020''; and
                    (B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Report.--The Secretary shall annually submit to the 
        Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Science, 
        Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
        Senate a report detailing the projects for which the authority 
        granted by subsection (a) was utilized, the rationale for such 
        utilizations, the funds spent utilizing such authority, the 
        extent of cost-sharing for such projects among Federal and non-
        Federal sources, the extent to which utilization of such 
        authority has addressed a homeland security capability gap or 
        threat to the homeland identified by the Department, the total 
        amount of payments, if any, that were received by the Federal 
        Government as a result of the utilization of such authority 
        during the period covered by each such report, the outcome of 
        each project for which such authority was utilized, and the 
        results of any audits of such projects.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Training.--The Secretary shall develop a training program for 
acquisitions staff on the utilization of the authority provided under 
subsection (a).''.
    (c) Prohibition on Additional Funding.--No additional funds are 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act and the amendments 
made by this Act.
                                 <all>
