[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4340 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4340

 To require the Comptroller General of the United States to conduct a 
review of the Office of Government Contracting and Business Development 
     of the Small Business Administration, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 7, 2016

 Mrs. Radewagen (for herself and Mr. Moulton) introduced the following 
      bill; which was referred to the Committee on Small Business

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the Comptroller General of the United States to conduct a 
review of the Office of Government Contracting and Business Development 
     of the Small Business Administration, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Small Business Contracting and 
Acquisition Programs Efficiency Act of 2016'' or as the ``SB CAPE Act 
of 2016''.

SEC. 2. GAO REVIEW OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING AND BUSINESS 
              DEVELOPMENT OF THE SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Study.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
initiate a review of the Office of Government Contracting and Business 
Development of the Small Business Administration. Such review shall 
examine--
            (1) the extent to which the personnel of the Small Business 
        Administration who to carry out procurement and business 
        development programs report to the Office of Government 
        Contracting and Business Development;
            (2) whether greater efficiency and consistency in the 
        certification process of procurement and business development 
        programs could be achieved by creating a single organizational 
        unit of employees to process all certifications required by 
        procurement and business development programs;
            (3) whether greater efficiency and efficacy in the 
        performance of procurement and business development programs 
        could be achieved by improving the alignment of the field 
        personnel assigned to such programs;
            (4) how the Office of Government Contracts and Business 
        Development could improve its staffing of regulatory drafting 
        functions and its coordination with the Federal Acquisition 
        Regulatory Council to ensure timely rulemaking by the Small 
        Business Administration; and
            (5) any other areas in which the Comptroller General 
        determines that the Small Business Administration could improve 
        its performance with respect to procurement and business 
        development programs.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after initiating the review 
required by paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall submit a 
report including the results of the review, along with any 
recommendations for improvements or other suggestions with respect to 
procurement and business development programs, to the Committee on 
Small Business of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate.
    (c) Procurement and Business Development Program Defined.--In this 
Act, the term ``procurement and business development program'' means a 
program related to procurement or business development established 
under section 7, 8, 15, 31, 36, 44, 45 or 46 of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.).
                                 <all>
