[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5751 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5751

 To provide that any State whose wildlife agency has determined that a 
 portion of the State is within the current range of the Shiras Moose 
may take management actions on certain Federal lands within that State 
  to stem decline of that species' population in that State, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 13, 2016

  Mr. Chaffetz (for himself, Mr. Stewart, Mrs. Love, Mr. Tipton, Mr. 
   Zinke, and Mrs. Lummis) introduced the following bill; which was 
             referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide that any State whose wildlife agency has determined that a 
 portion of the State is within the current range of the Shiras Moose 
may take management actions on certain Federal lands within that State 
  to stem decline of that species' population in that State, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Shiras Moose Protection and Recovery 
Act''.

SEC. 2. STATE MANAGEMENT ACTIONS ON FEDERAL LANDS TO STEM DECLINE OF 
              SHIRAS MOOSE.

    (a) In General.--Any State whose wildlife agency has determined 
that a portion of the State is within the current range of the Shiras 
Moose (Alces alces) may take management actions on covered Federal 
lands within that State to stem decline of that species' population in 
that State.
    (b) Monitoring.--
            (1) In general.--Any State taking management actions on 
        covered Federal lands with respect to Shiras Moose shall 
        monitor that species' population within that State for a period 
        of not less than __ years following the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Funding.--
                    (A) Authorization.--There is authorized to be 
                appropriated $____ for costs of State monitoring under 
                this section.
                    (B) Allocation.--Amounts appropriated under this 
                paragraph shall be allocated and distributed among 
                States based on--
                            (i) the estimated number of acres of 
                        covered Federal land in each State that is 
                        Shiras Moose habitat, divided by
                            (ii) the number of acres of current covered 
                        Federal land in States that is Shiras Moose 
                        habitat.
                    (C) Calculation.--For purposes of subparagraph (B), 
                the number of acres of Shiras Moose habitat in a State 
                shall be calculated by the head of the State agency 
                with authority over wildlife management.
    (c) Recovery Plans.--
            (1) In general.--Where monitoring, combined with existing 
        State science on the Shiras Moose population trends, shows an 
        unacceptable decline in the populations of such species as 
        determined by a State wildlife agency, the State may formulate 
        a recovery plan to mitigate the population decline.
            (2) Funding.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director of the United States 
                Fish and Wildlife Service shall provide to any State 
                that formulates a recovery plan, upon request of the 
                State, funding for implementation of the plan from 
                funds appropriated to the United States Fish and 
                Wildlife Service to implement its Northern Rocky 
                Mountain Gray Wolf Recovery Plan and any of its other 
                gray wolf recovery or monitoring plans.
                    (B) Allocation.--If State requests for such funds 
                exceed the funds so appropriated to the United States 
                Fish and Wildlife Service for any fiscal year, the 
                Director shall distribute such funds to such States on 
                the same basis that funds are distributed under 
                subsection (b)(2)(B).
    (d) Utah and Colorado.--Each of the States of Utah and Colorado--
            (1) may manage Shiras Moose and their predators on Federal, 
        State, and private lands to prevent declines in moose 
        populations within that State; and
            (2) shall collect, analyze, and disseminate data on the 
        results of such management.
    (e) Issuance of Final Rule.--Before the end of the 60-day period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Interior shall issue as a final rule the draft rule entitled 
``Removing the Gray Wolf (Canis lupus) From the List of Endangered and 
Threatened Wildlife and Maintaining Protections for the Mexican Wolf 
(Canis lupus baileyi) by Listing It as Endangered'' as published on 
June 13, 2013 (78 Fed. Reg. 35664), without regard to any other 
provision of statute that applies to issuance of such rule.
    (f) Exemption of Judicial Review.--The requirements and 
implementation of this Act are not subject to judicial review.
    (g) Relationship to Other Law.--This section shall apply 
notwithstanding any other provision of statute or regulation.
    (h) Covered Federal Land Defined.--For purposes of this section the 
term ``Federal land'' means--
            (1) public lands, as that term is defined in section 103(e) 
        of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1702(e));
            (2) lands in the National Forest System, as such System is 
        declared and defined in section 11(a) of the Forest and 
        Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 
        1609(a)); and
            (3) any area of the National Park System, as that term is 
        defined in section 1.4 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations 
        (as in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act).
                                 <all>
