[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1995 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1995

To provide grants for projects to acquire land and water for parks and 
   other outdoor recreation purposes and to develop new or renovate 
                existing outdoor recreation facilities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             August 5, 2015

  Mr. Schumer introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide grants for projects to acquire land and water for parks and 
   other outdoor recreation purposes and to develop new or renovate 
                existing outdoor recreation facilities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Outdoor Recreation Legacy 
Partnership Grant Program Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Eligible entity.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``eligible entity'' 
                means--
                            (i) a State;
                            (ii) a political subdivision of a State, 
                        including--
                                    (I) a city; and
                                    (II) a county;
                            (iii) a special purpose district, including 
                        park districts; and
                            (iv) an Indian tribe (as defined in section 
                        4 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
                        Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b)).
                    (B) Political subdivisions and indian tribes.--A 
                political subdivision of a State or an Indian tribe 
                shall be considered an eligible entity only if the 
                political subdivision or Indian tribe represents or 
                otherwise serves a qualifying urban area.
            (2) Outdoor recreation legacy partnership grant program.--
        The term ``Outdoor Recreation Legacy Partnership Grant 
        Program'' means the program established under section 3(a).
            (3) Qualifying urban area.--The term ``qualifying urban 
        area'' means an area described in the notice of the Bureau of 
        the Census entitled ``Qualifying Urban Areas for the 2010 
        Census'' (77 Fed. Reg. 18652 (March 27, 2012)).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 3. GRANTS AUTHORIZED.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish an outdoor 
recreation legacy partnership grant program under which the Secretary 
may award grants to eligible entities for projects--
            (1) to acquire land and water for parks and other outdoor 
        recreation purposes; and
            (2) to develop new or renovate existing outdoor recreation 
        facilities.
    (b) Matching Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition of receiving a grant under 
        subsection (a), an eligible entity shall provide matching funds 
        in the form of cash or an in-kind contribution in an amount 
        equal to not less than 100 percent of the amounts made 
        available under the grant.
            (2) Sources.--The matching amounts referred to in paragraph 
        (1) may include amounts made available from State, local, 
        nongovernmental, or private sources.

SEC. 4. ELIGIBLE USES.

    (a) In General.--A grant recipient may use a grant awarded under 
this Act--
            (1) to acquire land or water that provides outdoor 
        recreation opportunities to the public; and
            (2) to develop or renovate outdoor recreational facilities 
        that provide outdoor recreation opportunities to the public, 
        with priority given to projects that--
                    (A) create or significantly enhance access to park 
                and recreational opportunities in an urban neighborhood 
                or community;
                    (B) engage and empower underserved communities and 
                youth;
                    (C) provide opportunities for youth employment or 
                job training;
                    (D) establish or expand public-private 
                partnerships, with a focus on leveraging resources; and
                    (E) take advantage of coordination among various 
                levels of government.
    (b) Limitations on Use.--A grant recipient may not use grant funds 
for--
            (1) grant administration costs;
            (2) incidental costs related to land acquisition, including 
        appraisal and titling;
            (3) operation and maintenance activities;
            (4) facilities that support semiprofessional or 
        professional athletics;
            (5) indoor facilities such as recreation centers or 
        facilities that support primarily non-outdoor purposes; or
            (6) acquisition of land or interests in land that restrict 
        access to specific persons.

SEC. 5. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.

    In carrying out the Outdoor Recreation Legacy Partnership Grant 
Program, the Secretary shall--
            (1) conduct an initial screening and technical review of 
        applications received; and
            (2) evaluate and score all qualifying applications.

SEC. 6. REPORTING.

    (a) Annual Reports.--Not later than 30 days after the last day of 
each report period, each State lead agency that receives a grant under 
this Act shall annually submit to the Secretary performance and 
financial reports that--
            (1) summarize project activities conducted during the 
        report period; and
            (2) provide the status of the project.
    (b) Final Reports.--Not later than 90 days after the earlier of the 
date of expiration of a project period or the completion of a project, 
each State lead agency that receives a grant under this Act shall 
submit to the Secretary a final report containing such information as 
the Secretary may require.

SEC. 7. REVENUE SHARING.

    Section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 
2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 109-432) is amended by inserting 
before the period at the end ``, of which 20 percent for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2055 shall be used by the Secretary of the Interior 
to provide grants under the Outdoor Recreation Legacy Partnership Grant 
Program Act of 2015.''.
                                 <all>
