[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4383 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 668
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4383

                      [Report No. 114-855, Part I]

To require the Secretary of Homeland Security to enhance Department of 
     Homeland Security coordination on how to identify and record 
   information regarding individuals suspected or convicted of human 
                  trafficking, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 13, 2016

    Ms. Loretta Sanchez of California (for herself and Ms. McSally) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
 Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of 
                        the committee concerned

                            December 8, 2016

            Additional sponsor: Mr. Thompson of Mississippi

                            December 8, 2016

   Reported from the Committee on Homeland Security with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

                            December 8, 2016

 The Committee on the Judiciary discharged; committed to the Committee 
 of the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
[For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on January 
                               13, 2016]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require the Secretary of Homeland Security to enhance Department of 
     Homeland Security coordination on how to identify and record 
   information regarding individuals suspected or convicted of human 
                  trafficking, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``DHS Human Trafficking Prevention Act 
of 2016''.

SEC. 2. ENHANCED DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY COORDINATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall issue 
Department of Homeland Security-wide directive to personnel that 
includes guidance on the following:
            (1) Types of information that should be collected and 
        recorded in information technology systems utilized by the 
        Department to help identify individuals suspected or convicted 
        of human trafficking.
            (2) How to ensure data reliability of information regarding 
        individuals suspected or convicted of human trafficking 
        recorded in information technology systems utilized by the 
        Department.
            (3) Systematic and routine information sharing regarding 
        individuals suspected or convicted of human trafficking within 
        and among the components of the Department.
    (b) Information Technology Systems.--Not later than one year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall ensure that, consistent with the Department of Homeland 
Security-wide directive required under subsection (a), information 
technology systems utilized within the Department to record and track 
information regarding individuals suspected or convicted of human 
trafficking are integrated with each other.
    (c) Oversight.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of 
Homeland Security shall report to the Committee on Homeland Security of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate on the status of implementation of 
this section.
    (d) Human Trafficking Defined.--The term ``human trafficking'' 
means an act or practice described in paragraph (9) or (10) of section 
103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).
                                                 Union Calendar No. 668

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4383

                      [Report No. 114-855, Part I]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To require the Secretary of Homeland Security to enhance Department of 
     Homeland Security coordination on how to identify and record 
   information regarding individuals suspected or convicted of human 
                  trafficking, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            December 8, 2016

   Reported from the Committee on Homeland Security with an amendment

                            December 8, 2016

 The Committee on the Judiciary discharged; committed to the Committee 
 of the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
