[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6420 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6420

  To improve the screening of transgender persons at airport security 
                  checkpoints, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 1, 2016

Miss Rice of New York introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                 to the Committee on Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To improve the screening of transgender persons at airport security 
                  checkpoints, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Screening With Dignity Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. TSA SCREENING PROCEDURES AND TRAINING.

    (a) Development of Procedures.--Not later than 60 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall develop 
procedures to appropriately screen self-identified transgender 
passengers. In developing such procedures, the Administrator shall take 
into consideration the particular needs of persons whose gender 
identity is different or is perceived to be different from their 
assigned sex at birth and the disparate impact of screening on 
transgender passengers as opposed to the general population of 
passengers.
    (b) Training of TSOs and Implementation of Procedures.--Not later 
than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator shall conduct in-person training of all Transportation 
Security Officers on the screening procedures developed under 
subsection (a) and shall implement such procedures.

SEC. 3. REPORT ON SCREENING EQUIPMENT.

    (a) Study.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall conduct a study on the cost and 
feasibility of retrofitting advanced image technology screening 
equipment to distinguish between foreign objects and human body parts.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee 
on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the 
Comptroller General of the United States a report containing the 
results of the study conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 4. REPORT ON SECONDARY SCREENING PROCEDURES.

    (a) Study.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall conduct a study that evaluates the 
disparate impact that advanced imaging technology has on self-
identified transgender passengers as opposed to the general population 
of passengers. Such study shall include an examination of instances 
since 2010 in which a self-identified transgender passenger was 
required to undergo a secondary screening procedure after alarming the 
advanced imaging technology involved.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee 
on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report 
containing the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.
            (2) Advanced imaging technology.--The term ``advanced 
        imaging technology'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        826(l)(1)(A) of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 
        (49 U.S.C 44901(l)(1)(A)).
            (3) Gender identity.--The term ``gender identity'' means 
        the gender-related identity, appearance, mannerisms, or other 
        gender-related characteristics of an individual, regardless of 
        the individual's designated sex at birth.
                                 <all>
