[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1124 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                        Calendar No. 61
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1124

 To amend the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to improve the 
                                  Act.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 28, 2015

  Mr. Alexander, from the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
 Pensions, reported the following original bill; which was read twice 
                       and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to improve the 
                                  Act.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``WIOA Technical Amendments Act''.

SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT.

    (a) Local Workforce Development Boards.--Section 107(i)(1)(B) of 
the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3122(i)(1)(B)) 
is amended by striking ``the day before the date of enactment of this 
Act'' and inserting ``the day before the date of enactment of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998''.
    (b) Performance Accountability System.--Section 116 of such Act (29 
U.S.C. 3141) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2)(A)(iv), by striking ``clause 
        (i)(IV)'' and inserting ``clause (i)(VI)''; and
            (2) in subsection (g), by striking ``for a program 
        described in subsection (d)(2)(A)''.
    (c) State Allotments.--Section 132(b) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 
3172(b)) is amended, in paragraphs (1)(B)(iv)(I) and (2)(B)(iii)(I), by 
inserting ``less than'' after ``fiscal year that is''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL COUNCIL ON DISABILITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 400(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 
(29 U.S.C. 780(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b)(1) Each member of the National Council shall serve for a term 
of 3 years.
    ``(2)(A) No member of the National Council may serve more than two 
consecutive full terms beginning on the date of commencement of the 
first full term on the Council. Members may serve after the expiration 
of their terms until their successors have taken office.
    ``(B) As used in this paragraph, the term `full term' means a term 
of 3 years.
    ``(3) Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the 
expiration of the term for which such member's predecessor was 
appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect as if enacted 1 day after the date of enactment of the Workforce 
Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).
                                                        Calendar No. 61

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1124

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To amend the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to improve the 
                                  Act.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 28, 2015

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
