[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2360 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

<DOC>
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 2360


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 10, 2016

    Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Veterans' 
                                Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the approval of 
 certain programs of education for purposes of educational assistance 
            provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Career-Ready Student Veterans Act''.

SEC. 2. APPROVAL OF COURSES FOR PURPOSES OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE 
              PROGRAMS ADMINISTERED BY SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Approval of Non-Accredited Courses.--Subsection (c) of section 
3676 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (14) as paragraph (16); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (13) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(14) In the case of a program designed to prepare an 
        individual for licensure or certification in a State, the 
        program meets any instructional curriculum licensure or 
        certification requirements of such State.
            ``(15) In the case of a program designed to prepare an 
        individual for employment pursuant to standards developed by a 
        board or agency of a State in an occupation that requires 
        approval or licensure, the program is approved or licensed by 
        such board or agency of the State.''.
    (b) Exceptions.--Such section is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(f)(1) The Secretary may waive the requirements of paragraph (14) 
or (15) of subsection (c) in the case of a program of education offered 
by an educational institution if the Secretary determines all of the 
following:
            ``(A) The educational institution is not accredited by an 
        agency or association recognized by the Secretary of Education.
            ``(B) The program did not meet the requirements of such 
        paragraph at any time during the two-year period preceding the 
        date of the waiver.
            ``(C) The waiver furthers the purposes of the educational 
        assistance programs administered by the Secretary or would 
        further the education interests of individuals eligible for 
        assistance under such programs.
            ``(D) The educational institution does not provide any 
        commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based directly or 
        indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid 
        to any persons or entities engaged in any student recruiting or 
        admission activities or in making decisions regarding the award 
        of student financial assistance, except for the recruitment of 
        foreign students residing in foreign countries who are not 
        eligible to receive Federal student assistance.
    ``(2) Not later than 30 days after the Secretary issues a waiver 
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to Congress notice of 
the waiver and the justification of the Secretary for issuing the 
waiver.''.
    (c) Approval of Accredited Programs.--Section 3675(b)(3) of such 
title is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and (3)'' and inserting ``(3), (14), and 
        (15)''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``(or, with respect to such paragraphs (14) and 
        (15), the requirements under such paragraphs are waived 
        pursuant to subsection (f) of section 3676)''.
    (d) Disapproval of Courses.--Section 3679 of such title is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the 
Secretary shall disapprove a course of education described in section 
3676(c)(14) or (15) unless the educational institution providing the 
course of education publicly discloses any conditions or additional 
requirements, including training, experience, or exams, required to 
obtain the license, certification, or approval for which the course of 
education is designed to provide preparation.''.
    (e) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3672(b)(2)(A)(i) of such title 
is amended by striking ``An accredited'' and inserting ``Except as 
provided in paragraphs (14) and (15) of section 3676(c) of this title, 
an accredited''.
    (f) Applicability.--If after enrollment in a course of education 
that is subject to disapproval by reason of an amendment made by this 
Act, an individual pursues one or more courses of education at the same 
educational institution while remaining continuously enrolled (other 
than during regularly scheduled breaks between courses, semesters or 
terms) at that institution, any course so pursued by the individual at 
that institution while so continuously enrolled shall not be subject to 
disapproval by reason of such amendment.

            Passed the House of Representatives February 9, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
