[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 748 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 748

  To prohibit the issuance of social security numbers to individuals 
   given deferred action under the President's immigration executive 
                                actions.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 16, 2015

Mr. Sasse (for himself, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Vitter, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Lee, 
Mr. Cruz, and Mr. Perdue) introduced the following bill; which was read 
             twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To prohibit the issuance of social security numbers to individuals 
   given deferred action under the President's immigration executive 
                                actions.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Amnesty Bonuses Elimination Act''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON ISSUING SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS PURSUANT TO 
              DEFERRED ACTION POLICIES.

    Section 205(c)(2)(B)(i)(I) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
405(c)(2)(B)(i)(I)) is amended by inserting ``, except that the 
Commissioner of Social Security shall not issue a social security 
account number to any alien who is granted deferred action pursuant to 
deferred action policies set forth in the memorandum from the Secretary 
of Homeland Security entitled `Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with 
Respect to Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children' dated 
June 15, 2012, or the memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland 
Security entitled `Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to 
Individuals who Came to the United States as Children and with Respect 
to Certain Individuals Who Are the Parents of U.S. Citizens or 
Permanent Residents' dated November 20, 2014 (or any substantially 
similar policy changes issued or taken on or after the date of the 
enactment of the Amnesty Bonuses Elimination Act, whether set forth in 
memorandum, Executive order, regulation, directive, or by other 
action)'' after ``engage in such employment''.

SEC. 3. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in the amendment made by section 2 shall be construed as 
Congressional approval or validation of the deferred action policies 
set forth in the memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland Security 
entitled ``Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to 
Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children'' dated June 15, 
2012, or the memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland Security 
entitled ``Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to 
Individuals who Came to the United States as Children and with Respect 
to Certain Individuals Who Are the Parents of U.S. Citizens or 
Permanent Residents'' dated November 20, 2014, or any actions taken 
pursuant to such policies, or as an acknowledgment that such policies 
or actions represent a proper and lawful exercise of the President's 
authority under the Constitution.
                                 <all>
