[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3244 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3244

 To amend title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act to clarify the 
  treatment of pediatric dental coverage in the individual and group 
 markets outside of Exchanges established under the Patient Protection 
            and Affordable Care Act, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 14, 2016

Mr. Roberts (for himself and Mr. Bennet) introduced the following bill; 
     which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, 
                     Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act to clarify the 
  treatment of pediatric dental coverage in the individual and group 
 markets outside of Exchanges established under the Patient Protection 
            and Affordable Care Act, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Aligning Children's Dental Coverage 
Act''.

SEC. 2. TREATMENT OF PEDIATRIC DENTAL COVERAGE OUTSIDE OF ACA 
              EXCHANGES.

    (a) In General.--Section 2707 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300gg-6) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``A health'' and 
        inserting ``Subject to subsection (e), a health'';
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``section 
        1302(d)(2)(B)(ii)(I)'' and inserting ``section 
        1311(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
        Act''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Treatment of Pediatric Dental Coverage.--If a plan described 
in section 1311(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act (relating to standalone dental benefits) is offered in a 
service area in the individual or small group market in a State and the 
issuer of such plan certifies to the State that the plan offers 
pediatric dental benefits meeting the requirements of section 
1302(b)(1)(J) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, any 
other health insurance coverage or group health plan, to the extent 
offered in such service area in such market in such State, shall not 
fail to be treated as satisfying the requirements of subsection (a) 
solely because the coverage or health plan does not offer coverage of 
benefits offered through the standalone plan that are otherwise 
required under such section 1302(b)(1)(J).''.
    (b) Technical Correction to Treatment of ACA Exchanges Coverage.--
Section 1302(b)(4)(F) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
(42 U.S.C.18022(b)(4)(F)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``section 1311(b)(2)(B)(ii)'' and inserting 
        ``section 1311(d)(2)(B)(ii)''; and
            (2) by striking ``is offered through an Exchange, another 
        health plan offered through such Exchange'' and inserting ``is 
        offered in a service area through an Exchange (or in the case 
        of a plan not offered through an Exchange, offered in a service 
        area in the individual or small group market in a State), 
        another health plan to the extent offered in such service area 
        through such Exchange (or, to the extent offered in such 
        service area in such individual or small group market in the 
        State, as applicable)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.
                                 <all>
