[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 867 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 867

    To improve student academic achievement in science, technology, 
                 engineering, and mathematics subjects.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 25, 2015

  Mr. Merkley (for himself and Mr. Franken) introduced the following 
  bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, 
                     Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To improve student academic achievement in science, technology, 
                 engineering, and mathematics subjects.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This part may be cited as the ``STEM Education for the Global 
Economy Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. IMPROVING SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND MATHEMATICS 
              INSTRUCTION AND STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT.

    Title IV of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

 ``PART D--IMPROVING SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND MATHEMATICS 
                  INSTRUCTION AND STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT

    ``Subpart 1--Improving STEM Instruction and Student Achievement

``SEC. 4401. PURPOSE.

    ``The purpose of this subpart is to improve student academic 
achievement in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, 
including computer science, by--
            ``(1) improving instruction in such subjects through grade 
        12;
            ``(2) improving student engagement in, and increasing 
        student access to, such subjects;
            ``(3) improving the quality and effectiveness of classroom 
        instruction by recruiting, training, and supporting highly 
        rated teachers and providing robust tools and supports for 
        students and teachers in such subjects; and
            ``(4) closing student achievement gaps, and preparing more 
        students to be college and career ready in such subjects.

``SEC. 4402. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this subpart:
            ``(1) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means--
                    ``(A) a State educational agency; or
                    ``(B) a State educational agency in partnership 
                with 1 or more State educational agencies.
            ``(2) Eligible subgrantee.--The term `eligible subgrantee' 
        means--
                    ``(A) a high-need local educational agency;
                    ``(B) an educational service agency serving more 
                than 1 high-need local educational agency;
                    ``(C) a consortium of high-need local educational 
                agencies; or
                    ``(D) an entity described in subparagraph (A) or 
                (C) of paragraph (3) that has signed a memorandum of 
                agreement with an entity described in subparagraph (A), 
                (B), or (C) of this paragraph to implement the 
                requirements of this subpart in partnership with such 
                entity.
            ``(3) Outside partner.--The term `outside partner' means an 
        entity that has expertise and a demonstrated record of success 
        in improving student learning and engagement in the identified 
        subjects described in section 4404(b)(2), including any of the 
        following:
                    ``(A) A nonprofit or community-based organization, 
                which may include a cultural organization, such as a 
                museum or learning center.
                    ``(B) A business.
                    ``(C) An institution of higher education.
                    ``(D) An educational service agency.
            ``(4) State.--The term `State' means--
                    ``(A) any of the 50 States;
                    ``(B) the District of Columbia;
                    ``(C) the Bureau of Indian Education; or
                    ``(D) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

``SEC. 4403. GRANTS; ALLOTMENTS.

    ``(a) Reservations.--
            ``(1) In general.--From the amounts appropriated for this 
        part for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve--
                    ``(A) not more than 2 percent to provide technical 
                assistance to States under this subpart;
                    ``(B) not more than 5 percent for State capacity-
                building grants under this subpart, if the Secretary is 
                awarding such grants in accordance with paragraph (2); 
                and
                    ``(C) 10 percent for the STEM Master Teacher Corps 
                program under subpart 2.
            ``(2) Capacity-building grants.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In any year for which funding is 
                distributed competitively, as described in subsection 
                (c)(1), the Secretary may award 1 capacity-building 
                grant to each State that does not receive a grant under 
                subsection (c), on a competitive basis, to enable such 
                State to become more competitive in future years.
                    ``(B) Duration.--Grants awarded under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be for a period of 1 year.
    ``(b) Formula Grants.--
            ``(1) In general.--For each fiscal year for which the 
        amount appropriated to carry out this part, and not reserved 
        under subsection (a)(1), is equal to or more than $300,000,000, 
        the Secretary shall award grants to States, based on the 
        formula described in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Distribution of funds.--The Secretary shall allot to 
        each State--
                    ``(A) an amount that bears the same relationship to 
                35 percent of the excess amount described in paragraph 
                (1) as the number of individuals ages 5 through 17 in 
                the State, as determined by the Secretary on the basis 
                of the most recent satisfactory data, bears to the 
                number of those individuals in all such States, as so 
                determined; and
                    ``(B) an amount that bears the same relationship to 
                65 percent of the excess amount as the number of 
                individuals ages 5 through 17 from families with 
                incomes below the poverty line in the State, as 
                determined by the Secretary on the basis of the most 
                recent satisfactory data, bears to the number of those 
                individuals in all such States, as so determined.
            ``(3) Funding minimum.--No State receiving an allotment 
        under this subsection may receive less than one-half of 1 
        percent of the total amount allotted under paragraph (1) for a 
        fiscal year.
            ``(4) Puerto rico.--The amount allotted under paragraph (2) 
        to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for a fiscal year may not 
        exceed one-half of 1 percent of the total amount allotted under 
        paragraph (1) for such fiscal year.
            ``(5) Reallotment of unused funds.--If a State does not 
        successfully apply, the Secretary shall reallot the amount of 
        the State's allotment to the remaining States in accordance 
        with this subsection.
    ``(c) Competitive Grants.--
            ``(1) In general.--For each fiscal year for which the 
        amount appropriated to carry out this part, and not reserved 
        under subsection (a)(1), is less than $300,000,000, the 
        Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to 
        eligible entities to enable such eligible entities to carry out 
        the activities described in this subpart.
            ``(2) Duration.--Grants awarded under this subsection shall 
        be for a period of not more than 3 years.
            ``(3) Renewal.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If an eligible entity 
                demonstrates progress, as measured by the metrics 
                described in section 4406(a), the Secretary may renew a 
                grant for an additional 2-year period.
                    ``(B) Reduced funding.--Grant funds awarded under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be awarded at a reduced amount.

``SEC. 4404. APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--Each eligible entity or State desiring a grant 
under this subpart, whether through a competitive grant under section 
4403(c) or through an allotment under section 4403(b), shall submit an 
application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and 
accompanied by such information as the Secretary may require.
    ``(b) Contents.--At a minimum, an application submitted under 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
            ``(1) A description of the needs, including assets, 
        identified by the State or eligible entity, based on a State 
        analysis, which--
                    ``(A) may include results from a relevant pre-
                existing analysis of science, technology, engineering, 
                and mathematics education quality and outcomes in the 
                State or States served by the eligible entity;
                    ``(B) shall include data for elementary school and 
                secondary school grades, as applicable, to the extent 
                that such data are available, on--
                            ``(i) student achievement in science, 
                        technology, engineering, and mathematics;
                            ``(ii) science, technology, engineering, 
                        and mathematics teacher evaluations;
                            ``(iii) student access to mathematics and 
                        science courses needed to enroll in credit-
                        bearing coursework at institutions of higher 
                        education in the State or States served by the 
                        eligible entity;
                            ``(iv) access to science, technology, 
                        engineering, and mathematics courses for 
                        students through grade 12 who--
                                    ``(I) are eligible to receive a 
                                free or reduced priced lunch under the 
                                Richard B. Russell National School 
                                Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.); or
                                    ``(II) come from families with an 
                                income that is below the poverty line;
                            ``(v) student achievement gaps in science, 
                        technology, engineering, and mathematics 
                        subjects;
                            ``(vi) the percentage of students who 
                        successfully--
                                    ``(I) complete Advanced Placement 
                                or International Baccalaureate courses 
                                in science, technology, engineering, 
                                and mathematics subjects; or
                                    ``(II) complete rigorous, credit-
                                bearing postsecondary education courses 
                                in science, technology, engineering, 
                                and mathematics subjects;
                            ``(vii) available instructional systems and 
                        supports, such as curricula, instructional 
                        materials, professional development, teacher 
                        evaluation systems, and assessments;
                            ``(viii) science, technology, engineering, 
                        and mathematics teacher qualifications; and
                            ``(ix) teacher shortages and teacher 
                        distribution among local educational agencies 
                        and schools in science, technology, 
                        engineering, and mathematics subjects;
                    ``(C) shall include labor market information 
                regarding the industry and business workforce needs 
                within the area served by the eligible entity;
                    ``(D) shall include an analysis of the quality of 
                pre-service preparation at all public institutions of 
                higher education (including alternative pathways to 
                teacher licensure or certification) for individuals 
                preparing to teach science, technology, engineering, 
                and mathematics subjects in a preschool, elementary 
                school, or secondary school in the State; and
                    ``(E) shall include an analysis of the 
                implementation of any multi-tier systems of support 
                that have been employed in the State or States served 
                by the eligible entity to address the learning needs of 
                students in any science, technology, engineering, and 
                mathematics subjects.
            ``(2) An identification of the specific science, 
        technology, engineering, and mathematics subjects that the 
        State or eligible entity will address through the activities 
        described in section 4405, consistent with the needs identified 
        under paragraph (1) (referred to in this subpart as identified 
        subjects).
            ``(3) A description, in a manner that addresses any needs 
        identified under paragraph (1), of--
                    ``(A) how grant funds will be used by the State or 
                eligible entity to improve instruction in identified 
                subjects using evidence-based programs of instruction 
                that are aligned with the college and career ready 
                standards and academic assessments;
                    ``(B) how grant funds will be used to support 
                subgrantees and other high-need local educational 
                agencies in the employment of multi-tiered systems of 
                support to provide early intervening services, as 
                described in section 613(a)(4)(A)(ii) of the 
                Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, and to 
                increase student achievement in identified subjects;
                    ``(C) the process that the State or eligible entity 
                will use for awarding subgrants, including how relevant 
                stakeholders will be involved;
                    ``(D) how the State's or eligible entity's 
                activities and subgrants will be coordinated with other 
                Federal, State, and local programs and activities, 
                including career and technical education programs 
                authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
                Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et 
                seq.);
                    ``(E) the technical assistance that the State or 
                eligible entity will provide to subgrantees to support 
                the activities undertaken by the subgrantees;
                    ``(F) how the State or eligible entity will 
                evaluate the activities funded, both at the State and 
                subgrantee level, with funds provided under this 
                subpart, and in a manner consistent with any evaluation 
                activities carried out by the Institute of Education 
                Sciences under section 4407, or the National Science 
                Foundation;
                    ``(G) how the State or eligible entity will 
                allocate funds in a manner that will provide services 
                to both elementary schools and secondary schools;
                    ``(H) how the State or eligible entity will provide 
                targeted support to improve instruction in high-need 
                local educational agencies and high-need schools;
                    ``(I) how the State or eligible entity's proposed 
                project will ensure an increase in access for students 
                who are members of groups underrepresented in science, 
                technology, engineering, and mathematics subject fields 
                to high-quality courses in 1 or more of the identified 
                subjects; and
                    ``(J) how the State or eligible entity will 
                continue to involve stakeholders in education reform 
                efforts related to science, technology, engineering, 
                and mathematics instruction.
            ``(4) Assurances that the State or eligible entity will 
        monitor implementation of approved subgrantee plans.
    ``(c) Additional Funding.--A State or eligible entity that submits 
a request to use the additional State activities reservation described 
in section 4405(d)(2), shall provide, in a manner that addresses the 
needs identified under subsection (b)(1), a description of the 
activities that the eligible entity will carry out with such funds, 
consistent with section 4405.

``SEC. 4405. AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.

    ``(a) Required Activities.--Each State or eligible entity that 
receives a grant under this subpart shall use the grant funds to carry 
out each of the following activities:
            ``(1) Increasing access for students through grade 12 who 
        are members of groups underrepresented in science, technology, 
        engineering, and mathematics subject fields to high-quality 
        courses in the identified subjects.
            ``(2) Implementing evidence-based programs of instruction 
        based on high-quality standards and assessments in the 
        identified subjects.
            ``(3) Providing professional development and other 
        comprehensive systems of support for teachers and school 
        leaders to promote high-quality instruction and instructional 
        leadership in the identified subjects.
            ``(4) Providing technical assistance to subgrantees and 
        other high-need schools and local educational agencies in order 
        to improve student achievement and narrow achievement gaps in 
        identified subjects, including through--
                    ``(A) the development and implementation of multi-
                tier systems of support; and
                    ``(B) the development of curriculum or 
                instructional materials consistent with the principals 
                of universal design for learning.
    ``(b) Permissible Activities.--Each State or eligible entity that 
receives a grant under this subpart may use the grant funds to carry 
out 1 or more of the following activities:
            ``(1) Recruiting qualified teachers and instructional 
        leaders who are trained in identified subjects, including 
        teachers who have transitioned into the teaching profession 
        from a career in science, technology, engineering, and 
        mathematics fields.
            ``(2) Recruiting and training teachers to teach dual credit 
        and dual enrollment postsecondary-level courses to high school 
        students in identified subjects.
            ``(3) Providing induction and mentoring services to new 
        teachers in identified subjects.
            ``(4) Developing instructional supports, such as curricula 
        and assessments, which shall be evidence-based and aligned with 
        State college and career ready academic content standards, and 
        may include Internet-based curricula and Internet-based 
        instructional supports.
            ``(5) Implementing an interdisciplinary approach, by 
        integrating instruction in 1 or more science, technology, 
        engineering, and mathematics subjects with reading, English 
        language arts, or instruction in other core academic subjects 
        and noncore academic subjects.
    ``(c) Subgrants.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each State or eligible entity that 
        receives a grant under this section shall award subgrants, on a 
        competitive basis, to eligible subgrantees.
            ``(2) Minimum subgrant.--A State or eligible entity shall 
        award subgrants under this subsection that are of sufficient 
        size and scope to support high-quality, evidence-based, 
        effective programs that are consistent with the purpose of this 
        subpart.
            ``(3) Subgrantee application.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each eligible subgrantee 
                desiring a subgrant under this subsection shall submit 
                an application to the State or eligible entity at such 
                time, in such manner, and accompanied by such 
                information as the State or eligible entity may 
                require.
                    ``(B) Contents of subgrantee application.--At a 
                minimum, the application described in subparagraph (A) 
                shall include the following:
                            ``(i) A description of the activities that 
                        the eligible subgrantee will carry out, and how 
                        such activities will improve teaching and 
                        student academic achievement in the identified 
                        subjects, in a manner consistent with 
                        scientifically valid research.
                            ``(ii) A description of how the eligible 
                        subgrantee will use funds provided under this 
                        subsection to serve students and teachers in 
                        high-need schools.
                            ``(iii) A description of how funds provided 
                        under this subsection will be coordinated with 
                        other Federal, State, and local programs and 
                        activities, including career and technical 
                        education programs authorized under the Carl D. 
                        Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 
                        2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
                            ``(iv) If the eligible subgrantee is 
                        working with outside partners, a description of 
                        how such outside partners will be involved in 
                        improving instruction and increasing access to 
                        high-quality learning experiences in the 
                        identified subjects.
            ``(4) Subgrantee use of funds.--
                    ``(A) Required use of funds.--Each subgrantee under 
                this subsection shall use the subgrant funds to carry 
                out activities for students through grade 12, 
                consistent with the activities described in the 
                subgrantee's application, which shall include--
                            ``(i) high-quality teacher and 
                        instructional leader recruitment, support, and 
                        evaluation in the identified subjects;
                            ``(ii) professional development, which may 
                        include development and support for 
                        instructional coaches, to enable teachers and 
                        instructional leaders to increase student 
                        achievement in identified subjects, through--
                                    ``(I) implementation of classroom 
                                assessments; and
                                    ``(II) differentiation of 
                                instruction in identified subjects for 
                                all students, including for students 
                                who are children with disabilities and 
                                students who are English learners;
                            ``(iii) activities to--
                                    ``(I) improve the content knowledge 
                                of teachers; and
                                    ``(II) facilitate professional 
                                collaboration, which may include 
                                providing time for such collaborations;
                            ``(iv) the development, adoption, and 
                        improvement of high-quality curricula and 
                        instructional supports that--
                                    ``(I) are aligned with State 
                                college and career ready academic 
                                content standards; and
                                    ``(II) the eligible subgrantee will 
                                use to improve student academic 
                                achievement in identified subjects;
                            ``(v) the development or improvement, and 
                        implementation, of multi-tier systems of 
                        support to provide early intervening services 
                        and to increase student achievement in 1 or 
                        more of the identified subjects; and
                            ``(vi) integrating instruction in the 
                        identified subjects with instruction in 
                        reading, English language arts, or other core 
                        and noncore academic subjects.
                    ``(B) Allowable use of funds.--In addition to the 
                required activities described in subparagraph (A), each 
                eligible subgrantee that receives a subgrant under this 
                subsection, may also use the subgrant funds to--
                            ``(i) support the participation of 
                        underserved populations in nonprofit 
                        competitions related to science, technology, 
                        engineering, and mathematics subjects (such as 
                        robotics, science research, invention, 
                        mathematics, computer science, and technology 
                        competitions);
                            ``(ii) broaden secondary school students' 
                        access to, and interest in, careers that 
                        require academic preparation in 1 or more 
                        identified subjects; and
                            ``(iii) broaden secondary school students' 
                        access to early college high schools, dual 
                        enrollment, or concurrent enrollment courses in 
                        science, technology, engineering, and 
                        mathematics subjects, including providing 
                        professional development to teachers and 
                        leaders related to this work.
                    ``(C) Limitation.--Each subgrantee that receives a 
                subgrant under this subsection shall not expend more 
                than 15 percent of the subgrant funds on the activities 
                described in subparagraph (B).
                    ``(D) Matching funds.--A State or eligible entity 
                shall require an eligible subgrantee receiving a 
                subgrant under this subsection to demonstrate that such 
                subgrantee has obtained a commitment from 1 or more 
                outside partners to match, using non-Federal funds or 
                in-kind contributions, not less than 15 percent of the 
                amount of subgrant funds. In the case of significant 
                financial hardship, an eligible subgrantee may apply to 
                the State or eligible entity for, and the State or 
                eligible entity may grant, a waiver of a portion of the 
                minimum matching funds requirement.
    ``(d) State Activities.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each State or eligible entity that 
        receives a grant under this subpart may use not more than 5 
        percent of grant funds for--
                    ``(A) administrative costs;
                    ``(B) monitoring the implementation of subgrants;
                    ``(C) providing technical assistance to 
                subgrantees; and
                    ``(D) evaluating subgrants in coordination with the 
                evaluation described in section 4407.
            ``(2) Reservation.--Each State or eligible entity that 
        receives a grant under this subpart may submit a request to the 
        Secretary to reserve not more than 15 percent of grant funds, 
        inclusive of the amount described in paragraph (1), for 
        additional State activities, consistent with subsections (a) 
        and (b).

``SEC. 4406. PERFORMANCE METRICS; REPORT.

    ``(a) Establishment of Performance Metrics.--The Secretary, acting 
through the Director of the Institute of Education Sciences, shall 
establish performance metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the 
activities carried out under this subpart.
    ``(b) Annual Report.--Each State or eligible entity that receives a 
grant under this subpart shall prepare and submit an annual report to 
the Secretary, which shall include information relevant to the 
performance metrics described in subsection (a).

``SEC. 4407. EVALUATION.

    ``From the amount reserved in accordance with section 9601, the 
Secretary shall--
            ``(1) acting through the Director of the Institute of 
        Education Sciences, and in consultation with the Director of 
        the National Science Foundation--
                    ``(A) evaluate the implementation and impact of the 
                activities supported under this subpart, including 
                progress measured by the metrics established under 
                section 4406(a); and
                    ``(B) identify best practices to improve 
                instruction in science, technology, engineering, and 
                mathematics subjects; and
            ``(2) disseminate, in consultation with the National 
        Science Foundation, research on best practices to improve 
        instruction in science, technology, engineering, and 
        mathematics subjects.

``SEC. 4408. SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT.

    ``Funds received under this subpart shall be used to supplement, 
and not supplant, funds that would otherwise be used for activities 
authorized under this subpart.

``SEC. 4409. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.

    ``A State that receives funds under this subpart for a fiscal year 
shall maintain the fiscal effort provided by the State for the subjects 
supported by the funds under this part at a level equal to or greater 
than the level of such fiscal effort for the preceding fiscal year.

             ``Subpart 2--STEM Master Teacher Corps Program

``SEC. 4421. PURPOSE.

    ``The purpose of this subpart is to establish a STEM Master Teacher 
Corps program that--
            ``(1) elevates the status of the STEM teaching profession 
        by recognizing and rewarding outstanding STEM teachers;
            ``(2) attracts and retains effective STEM teachers, 
        particularly in high-need schools, by offering them additional 
        compensation, instructional resources, and instructional 
        leadership roles; and
            ``(3) creates a network of outstanding STEM teacher-leaders 
        who will--
                    ``(A) share best practices and resources;
                    ``(B) take on leadership responsibilities in their 
                schools, districts, States (if part of the 
                participating area), or consortia with the authority to 
                provide professional support to their STEM colleagues 
                not participating in the STEM Master Teacher Corps;
                    ``(C) aid in the development and retention of 
                beginning teachers by serving as their role models and 
                providing them with instructional support; and
                    ``(D) inform the development of STEM education 
                policy.

``SEC. 4422. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this subpart:
            ``(1) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means a 
        consortium of high-need local educational agencies or 1 or more 
        State educational agencies, acting in partnership with 1 or 
        more--
                    ``(A) institutions of higher education; or
                    ``(B) nonprofit organizations with a demonstrated 
                record of success in preparing or improving the 
                effectiveness of STEM teachers.
            ``(2) Participating area.--The term `participating area' 
        means--
                    ``(A) in the case of an eligible entity that 
                includes a State educational agency or consortium of 
                State educational agencies, the State or States; or
                    ``(B) in the case of an eligible entity that 
                includes a consortium of local educational agencies, 
                the area served by such agencies.
            ``(3) Rural school.--The term `rural school' means a public 
        school--
                    ``(A) designated with a school locale code of 
                Distant Town, Remote Town, Fringe Rural, Distant Rural, 
                or Remote Rural; and
                    ``(B) served by a local educational agency in which 
                not less than two-thirds of the students served by the 
                agency attend a school designated with 1 of the school 
                locale codes listed in subparagraph (A).
            ``(4) STEM.--The term `STEM' means science, technology, 
        engineering, and mathematics, including computer science.

``SEC. 4423. STEM MASTER TEACHER CORPS PROGRAM.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Grants authorized.--From the amount reserved under 
        section 4403(a)(1)(C), the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Director of the National Science Foundation and the heads of 
        other appropriate Federal agencies, as determined by the 
        Secretary, shall establish a STEM Master Teacher Corps program 
        by awarding, on a competitive basis, 1 or more grants of not 
        less than $15,000,000 each to eligible entities to enable the 
        eligible entities to establish the program, in accordance with 
        section 4425.
            ``(2) Planning grants.--The Secretary may award planning 
        grants to eligible entities to enable the entities to make 
        plans to establish the program, in accordance with section 
        4425.
    ``(b) Duration of Grant.--
            ``(1) In general.--A grant awarded under this subpart shall 
        be for a period of not more than 5 years.
            ``(2) Review.--The Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) review, 3 years after an eligible entity is 
                awarded a grant under this subpart, the performance of 
                the entity during the 3-year period; and
                    ``(B) fund the remaining grant period for such 
                entity if the Secretary determines, based on such 
                review, that the entity is achieving satisfactory 
                results.
    ``(c) Matching Requirement.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), an 
        eligible entity that receives a grant under this subpart shall 
        provide, from non-Federal sources, an amount equal to not less 
        than 50 percent of the amount of the grant, which may be 
        provided in cash or in-kind, to carry out the activities 
        supported by the grant.
            ``(2) Exception.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may waive the 50-
                percent matching requirement under paragraph (1) for an 
                eligible entity that the Secretary determines is unable 
                to meet such requirement. The Secretary shall set a 
                matching requirement for such eligible entities 
                according to the sliding scale described in 
                subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Sliding scale.--The amount of a match under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be established based on a 
                sliding fee scale that takes into account--
                            ``(i) the relative poverty of the 
                        population to be targeted by the eligible 
                        entity; and
                            ``(ii) the ability of the eligible entity 
                        to obtain such matching funds.
            ``(3) Consideration.--The Secretary shall not consider an 
        eligible entity's ability to match funds when determining which 
        eligible entities will receive grant awards under this subpart.

``SEC. 4424. APPLICATION.

    ``(a) In General.--An eligible entity desiring a grant under this 
subpart shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in 
such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may 
require.
    ``(b) Contents.--An application submitted under this section shall 
include--
            ``(1) a description of the STEM Master Teacher Corps 
        program that the eligible entity intends to carry out, 
        including the number of Corps members the entity intends to 
        select, the intended distribution of subjects and grade levels 
        taught, the geographic and economic characteristics of the 
        local educational agencies that are part of the participating 
        area, such as the rural-urban continuum codes and proportion of 
        high-need schools served, and the type of activities proposed 
        for recruitment of Corps members;
            ``(2) a description of the roles and responsibilities that 
        each participating local educational agency, State, institution 
        of higher education, or nonprofit organization, as applicable, 
        will have;
            ``(3) a demonstration that the entity has sufficient 
        capacity to carry out the activities described in section 4425;
            ``(4) a description of the member selection process and 
        criteria that the applicant will use to select members of the 
        STEM Master Teacher Corps, in accordance with section 4425(b);
            ``(5) a description of how the eligible entity intends to 
        facilitate networking and sharing of best practices and 
        educational resources relating to STEM education among Corps 
        members, particularly at rural schools, if applicable, and make 
        a selection of these best practices and resources more widely 
        available to other teachers and the STEM educational community, 
        including through electronic means;
            ``(6) a demonstration that the entity has a clear plan 
        for--
                    ``(A) offering research-based professional 
                development to Corps members, including training on 
                instructional leadership, mentoring, engaging and 
                effectively teaching historically underachieving or 
                underrepresented groups in STEM fields, such as girls, 
                minorities, low-income students, English learners, and 
                students who are children with disabilities, and 
                effective STEM teaching methods, such as incorporating 
                hands-on STEM projects into their lesson plans; and
                    ``(B) tracking the effectiveness of such 
                professional development;
            ``(7) a demonstration that the entity has a clear plan for 
        evaluating the impact of the professional support provided by 
        STEM Master Teacher Corps members to other teachers in their 
        school, district, and participating area;
            ``(8) a description of how the local educational agencies 
        and schools served by the eligible entity intend to align STEM 
        Master Teacher Corps members' duties with school systems and 
        activities already in place, if applicable, such as 
        professional development and mentoring;
            ``(9) an explanation of how STEM Master Teacher Corps 
        members will be afforded the time, authority, and resources to 
        fulfill requirements under the program, and how other teachers 
        will be afforded the time to receive professional support from 
        Corps members;
            ``(10) a demonstration that the entity has a clear plan for 
        oversight to ensure that STEM Master Teacher Corps members 
        carry out the responsibilities described in section 4425(c) to 
        the fullest extent practicable, and a description of the 
        actions to be taken if a member does not carry out such 
        responsibilities; and
            ``(11) a description of how the grant funds will be 
        financially managed.
    ``(c) Criteria for Awarding Grants.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall award grants under 
        this subpart on the basis of merit considering, at a minimum, 
        the following:
                    ``(A) The extent to which the local educational 
                agencies that are part of the eligible entity are 
                committed to integrating the program into existing 
                school structures, policies, operations, and budgets, 
                such as by enabling STEM Master Teacher Corps members 
                to take on leadership roles in their schools, 
                districts, and participating area, in addition to their 
                classroom duties, including assisting in the 
                development and implementation of professional 
                development activities and driving the instructional 
                program of the school.
                    ``(B) The quality of the proposed professional 
                development, teacher leadership and mentorship 
                activities, and networking opportunities.
                    ``(C) Demonstration that the local educational 
                agencies and schools they serve have removed barriers 
                to full participation in the program, including 
                affording Corps members and the teachers they mentor 
                the time to participate in activities required by the 
                program.
                    ``(D) The number and quality of the individuals 
                that will be served by the program.
                    ``(E) The capacity of the eligible entity to 
                effectively carry out the program.
            ``(2) Priority.--In awarding grants under this subpart, the 
        Secretary shall give priority to--
                    ``(A) eligible entities that intend to include 
                large numbers of teachers in the STEM Master Teacher 
                Corps; and
                    ``(B) eligible entities that intend to include 
                rural schools, particularly high-need rural schools, in 
                the participating area to be served.

``SEC. 4425. REQUIRED USE OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) In General.--An eligible entity receiving a grant under this 
subpart shall use grant funds to--
            ``(1) administer the selection of teachers for membership 
        in the STEM Master Teacher Corps, in accordance with the 
        requirements of subsection (b);
            ``(2) provide compensation to each public school teacher 
        who is selected and serves as a member of the STEM Master 
        Teacher Corps, in recognition of the teacher's teaching 
        accomplishments, leadership, and increased responsibilities, 
        which amount shall--
                    ``(A) supplement, and not supplant, the teacher's 
                base salary; and
                    ``(B) be equal to--
                            ``(i) in the case of a teacher who teaches 
                        at a high-need public school, including a high-
                        need charter school, $15,000 per year for each 
                        year the teacher serves as a member of the 
                        Corps; and
                            ``(ii) in the case of a teacher who teaches 
                        at a public school, including a charter school, 
                        that is not a high-need school, $5,000 per year 
                        for each year the teacher serves as a member of 
                        the Corps;
            ``(3) provide research-based professional development 
        activities for members of the STEM Master Teacher Corps, as 
        described in section 4424(b)(6), and track the effectiveness of 
        such professional development in order to determine whether to 
        alter professional development activities;
            ``(4) provide discretionary resources for STEM Master 
        Teacher Corps members at high-need public schools to use in 
        their classrooms and schools, including for after school 
        activities to enrich STEM education and for equipment and 
        technology to facilitate long distance networking, mentoring, 
        and sharing of best practices;
            ``(5) assist in coordinating instructional leadership roles 
        for STEM Master Teacher Corps members and mentoring 
        relationships between STEM Master Teacher Corps members and 
        other teachers in the same school, school district, and 
        participating area in which the Corps members serve as 
        instructional leaders;
            ``(6) facilitate efforts by STEM Master Teacher Corps 
        members to inform STEM education policy at the national, State, 
        and local levels;
            ``(7) help defray costs associated with affording STEM 
        Master Teacher Corps members the time to fulfill their duties 
        as Corps members; and
            ``(8) support other activities that advance the purpose of 
        this subpart.
    ``(b) Selecting Members of the STEM Master Teacher Corps.--
            ``(1) Selection criteria for corps members.--The eligible 
        entity shall select, as members of the STEM Master Teacher 
        Corps, exemplary STEM teachers at the elementary school and 
        secondary school levels who teach in the participating area, 
        which may also include special education teachers and teachers 
        of English learners who teach a STEM subject. In selecting the 
        members, the eligible entity shall--
                    ``(A) make decisions based on the teacher's--
                            ``(i) ability to improve student academic 
                        achievement in the STEM fields, as demonstrated 
                        by, if applicable, student academic growth in 
                        such fields;
                            ``(ii) ability to enhance student 
                        engagement in such fields; and
                            ``(iii) record of leadership in the 
                        teacher's school and involvement in 
                        professional and outreach activities; and
                    ``(B) evaluate the teacher's ability and record 
                based on multiple measures, such as--
                            ``(i) teacher evaluations of pedagogical 
                        skills;
                            ``(ii) an assessment of content knowledge;
                            ``(iii) the performance and improvement of 
                        the teacher's students on tests;
                            ``(iv) demonstration of practical 
                        professional experience in the teacher's 
                        discipline, such as having worked in industry 
                        or research;
                            ``(v) involvement in STEM discipline 
                        professional societies;
                            ``(vi) STEM outreach and community 
                        involvement; and
                            ``(vii) certification by the National Board 
                        for Professional Teaching Standards, or other 
                        equivalently rigorous, performance-based, peer-
                        reviewed certification, as a high-performing 
                        teacher.
            ``(2) Overall corps membership requirements.--An eligible 
        entity receiving a grant under this subpart shall ensure that--
                    ``(A) not more than 5 percent of the STEM teachers 
                who teach in the participating area are members of the 
                Corps;
                    ``(B) not less than 75 percent of the STEM Master 
                Teacher Corps members are teachers at high-need 
                schools;
                    ``(C) the proportion of STEM Master Teacher Corps 
                members in the participating area who teach at rural 
                high-need schools is not less than the proportion of 
                all teachers who teach at rural high-need schools in 
                the participating area;
                    ``(D) there are multiple cohorts of STEM Master 
                Teacher Corps members; and
                    ``(E) the STEM Master Teacher Corps includes 
                teachers from each of the disciplines of science, 
                technology, engineering, and mathematics, if teachers 
                from each of these disciplines meeting the standards of 
                Corps membership are available in the participating 
                area and may include teachers of career and technical 
                education.
            ``(3) Participation of private school teachers.--An 
        eligible entity may select STEM teachers who teach at private 
        schools in the participating area to be members of the STEM 
        Master Teacher Corps, except that--
                    ``(A) not more than 5 percent of teachers selected 
                as STEM Master Teacher Corps members shall be teachers 
                at private schools; and
                    ``(B) private school teachers shall not be eligible 
                for compensation described in subsection (a)(2), 
                discretionary resource funds described in subsection 
                (a)(4), or for defrayment funds described in subsection 
                (a)(7).
    ``(c) Corps Member Requirements.--Each teacher selected to be a 
member of the STEM Master Teacher Corps who wishes to join the Corps 
shall enter into an agreement with the eligible entity, under which the 
teacher shall, as a condition of receiving the compensation described 
in subsection (a)(2) and the discretionary resources described in 
subsection (a)(4), agree to carry out the responsibilities of a master 
teacher as required by the eligible entity, including--
            ``(1) participating in professional development activities 
        offered by the program;
            ``(2) networking and sharing best practices and educational 
        resources with other members of the STEM Master Teacher Corps; 
        and
            ``(3) contributing to the professional development of the 
        teacher's colleagues, which may include providing school-based 
        professional support to other STEM teachers through regular 
        weekly professional development sessions and individual 
        coaching, where possible, leading professional learning 
        communities, and taking on other instructional leadership roles 
        in the teacher's school, district, State, if part of the 
        participating area, or consortium.
    ``(d) Collection for Noncompliance.--
            ``(1) Monitoring compliance.--Each eligible entity that 
        receives a grant under this subpart shall monitor whether each 
        teacher the entity selects to be a member of the STEM Master 
        Teacher Corps is in compliance with the Corps member 
        requirements described in subsection (c).
            ``(2) Collection of repayment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A teacher selected to be a 
                member of the STEM Master Teacher Corps shall repay the 
                additional compensation provided for a school year 
                described in subsection (a)(2) to the eligible entity 
                if--
                            ``(i) the entity finds the teacher not in 
                        compliance with the Corps member requirements 
                        described in subsection (c) and the entity 
                        determines the teacher should no longer be a 
                        member of the Corps for such year; or
                            ``(ii) the teacher withdraws during such 
                        year from membership in the Corps without an 
                        accepted excuse, as determined by the eligible 
                        entity.
                    ``(B) Compensation returned to the treasury.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), an eligible entity that receives 
                        repaid compensation under subparagraph (A) 
                        shall return such compensation to the United 
                        States Treasury.
                            ``(ii) Administrative costs.--An eligible 
                        entity that receives repaid compensation under 
                        subparagraph (A) may retain a percentage, 
                        determined by the Secretary, of such repayment 
                        to defray administrative costs associated with 
                        the collection.

``SEC. 4426. PERFORMANCE METRICS; REPORT.

    ``(a) Establishment of Performance Metrics.--The Secretary, acting 
through the Director of the Institute of Education Sciences, shall 
establish performance metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the 
activities carried out under this subpart.
    ``(b) Annual Report.--Each eligible entity that receives a grant 
under this subpart shall prepare and submit an annual report to the 
Secretary, which shall include information relevant to the performance 
metrics described in subsection (a).

``SEC. 4427. SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT.

    ``Funds received under this subpart shall be used to supplement, 
and not supplant, funds that would otherwise be used for activities 
authorized under this subpart.

``SEC. 4428. EVALUATION.

    ``From the amount reserved in accordance with section 9601, the 
Secretary shall--
            ``(1) acting through the Director of the Institute of 
        Education Sciences, and in consultation with the Director of 
        the National Science Foundation--
                    ``(A) evaluate the implementation and impact of the 
                activities supported under this subpart, with regard to 
                the program's success in achieving the purpose 
                described in section 4421;
                    ``(B) identify optimal strategies for the design, 
                implementation, and continuing development of the STEM 
                Master Teacher Corps program; and
                    ``(C) identify best practices for developing, 
                supporting, and retaining STEM teachers based on 
                lessons learned from the STEM Master Teacher Corps 
                program; and
            ``(2) disseminate findings from the evaluation conducted 
        under paragraph (1) to the STEM education field and make the 
        findings publicly available.''.
                                 <all>
