[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4348 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4348

   To require reciprocity between the District of Columbia and other 
States and jurisdictions with respect to the ability of individuals to 
       carry certain concealed firearms, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 7, 2016

 Mr. Schweikert (for himself, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, 
 Mr. Posey, Mr. Babin, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Franks of 
 Arizona, Mr. Perry, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mrs. Lummis, Mr. LaMalfa, 
 Mr. Zinke, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Buck, Mr. Miller of Florida, Mr. Jody B. 
Hice of Georgia, Mr. Rooney of Florida, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Wilson of South 
 Carolina, Mr. Stutzman, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Harris, Mr. Walberg, 
  Mr. Harper, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi, Mr. Walker, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. 
 Bost, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Olson, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Allen, and Mr. Renacci) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                    Oversight and Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To require reciprocity between the District of Columbia and other 
States and jurisdictions with respect to the ability of individuals to 
       carry certain concealed firearms, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``DC Personal Protection Reciprocity 
Act''.

SEC. 2. REQUIRING RECIPROCITY BETWEEN DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA AND OTHER 
              JURISDICTIONS WITH RESPECT TO CARRYING CERTAIN CONCEALED 
              FIREARMS.

    (a) Permitting Nonresidents With Valid Concealed Carry Licenses 
From Other Jurisdictions To Carry Concealed Pistols in District of 
Columbia.--Section 5 of the Act of July 8, 1932 (sec. 22-4505, D.C. 
Official Code) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) The provisions of section 4(a) with respect to pistols shall 
not apply to an individual who--
            ``(1) is not prohibited by Federal law from possessing, 
        transporting, shipping, or receiving a firearm (as defined in 
        section 921(a)(3) of title 18, United States Code);
            ``(2) is carrying a valid license or permit which is issued 
        pursuant to the law of a State and which permits the individual 
        to carry a concealed firearm (as so defined); and
            ``(3) is carrying a valid identification document 
        containing a photograph of the individual.''.
    (b) Issuance of Licenses by District of Columbia to Nonresidents.--
            (1) Issuance of license to nonresidents holding valid 
        licenses from other jurisdictions.--Section 6(a) of such Act 
        (sec. 22-4506, D.C. Official Code) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``The Chief'' and inserting ``(1) 
                The Chief'';
                    (B) by striking ``or of a person having a bona fide 
                residence or place of business within the United States 
                and a license to carry a pistol concealed upon his or 
                her person issued by the lawful authorities of any 
                State or subdivision of the United States,''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) The Chief shall, upon the application of a person having a 
bona fide residence or place of business within the United States and a 
license to carry a pistol concealed upon his or her person issued by 
the lawful authorities of any State or subdivision of the United 
States, issue a license to such person to carry a pistol concealed upon 
his or her person within the District of Columbia for not more than 2 
years from the date of issue.''.
            (2) Issuance of license to nonresidents from states 
        permitting concealed carry without license.--Section 6(b) of 
        such Act (sec. 22-4506(b), D.C. Official Code) is amended by 
        striking ``; provided,'' and all that follows and inserting a 
        period.
    (c) Reciprocity Agreements With Other States for District of 
Columbia Residents Holding Valid District of Columbia Licenses.--
Section 6 of such Act (sec. 22-4506, D.C. Official Code) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) The Chief shall enter into reciprocity agreements with each 
other State that requires such an agreement in order to grant 
recognition to a license to carry a concealed firearm which is issued 
by another State.''.

SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect upon 
the date of the enactment of this Act, except that the amendments made 
by section 2(b) shall apply with respect to applications for licenses 
which are submitted on or after October 23, 2014.
                                 <all>
