[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1328 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1328

     To authorize a national grant program for on-the-job training.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 13, 2015

  Mrs. Shaheen (for herself and Mr. Cochran) introduced the following 
  bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, 
                     Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To authorize a national grant program for on-the-job training.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``On-the-Job Training Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. ON-THE-JOB TRAINING.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle D of title I of the Workforce Innovation 
and Opportunity Act is amended by inserting after section 171 (29 
U.S.C. 3226) the following:

``SEC. 171A. ON-THE-JOB TRAINING.

    ``(a) Definition.--In this section, the term `federally recognized 
tribal organization' means an entity described in section 166(c).
    ``(b) Grants.--From the amount made available under subsection (h), 
and subject to subsection (d)--
            ``(1) the Secretary shall make grants on a discretionary 
        basis to States, local boards, and federally recognized tribal 
        organizations, for adult on-the-job training, or dislocated 
        worker on-the-job training, carried out under section 134 and 
        for State functions described in subsection (f); and
            ``(2) using an amount that is not more than 10 percent of 
        the funds made available under subsection (h), the Secretary 
        shall make grants to States, local boards, and federally 
        recognized tribal organizations for developing on-the-job 
        training programs, including providing capacity building 
        activities for local staff who will be engaged in the 
        development of the programs, in consultation with the 
        Secretary.
    ``(c) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
subsection (b), a State, local board, or federally recognized tribal 
organization shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, 
in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may 
require. In preparing such an application for a grant under subsection 
(b)(1), a local board shall consult with the corresponding State.
    ``(d) Reimbursement of Wage Rates.--Notwithstanding the limitation 
in section 101(44)(B), in making the grants described in subsection 
(b)(1) the Secretary may allow for higher levels of reimbursement of 
wage rates the Secretary determines are appropriate based on factors 
such as--
            ``(1) employer size, in order to facilitate the 
        participation of small- and medium-sized employers;
            ``(2) target populations, in order to enhance job creation 
        for persons with barriers to employment; and
            ``(3) the number of employees that will participate in the 
        on-the-job training, the wage and benefit levels of the 
        employees (before the training and anticipated on completion of 
        the training), the relationship of the training to the 
        competitiveness of the employer and employees, and the 
        existence of other employer-provided training and advancement 
        opportunities.
    ``(e) Administration by Secretary.--The Secretary may use an amount 
that is not more than 1 percent of the funds made available under 
subsection (h) for the administration, management, and oversight of the 
programs, activities, and grants, funded under subsection (b), 
including the evaluation of, and dissemination of information on 
lessons learned through, the use of such funds.
    ``(f) State Oversight and Monitoring.--A local board that receives 
a grant under subsection (b)(1) and is located in a State, shall 
provide not less than 5 percent of the grant funds to the State for 
State functions described in sections 116(i), 184, and 185.
    ``(g) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to affect the manner in which subtitle B is implemented, for 
activities funded through amounts appropriated under section 136.
    ``(h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary 
for fiscal year 2016 and each subsequent fiscal year.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 171 the following:

``Sec. 171A. On-the-job training.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--This Act, including the amendments made by 
this Act, take effect as if included in the Workforce Innovation and 
Opportunity Act.
                                 <all>
