[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5658 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

<DOC>
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5658


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 13, 2016

Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To amend title 5, United States Code, to codify the Presidential 
          Innovation Fellows Program, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Tested Ability to Leverage 
Exceptional National Talent Act of 2016'' or the ``TALENT Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. PRESIDENTIAL INNOVATION FELLOWS PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 31 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

        ``SUBCHAPTER V--PRESIDENTIAL INNOVATION FELLOWS PROGRAM

``Sec. 3171. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program
    ``(a) Policy.--It is in the national interest for the Government to 
attract the brightest minds skilled in technology or innovative 
practices to serve in the Government to work on some of the Nation's 
biggest and most pressing challenges. This subchapter establishes a 
program to encourage successful entrepreneurs, executives, and 
innovators to join the Government and work in close cooperation with 
Government leaders, to create meaningful solutions that can help save 
lives and taxpayer money, fuel job creation, and significantly improve 
how the Government serves the American people.
    ``(b) Establishment.--The Administrator of General Services shall 
continue the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program (hereinafter 
referred to as the `Program') to enable exceptional individuals with 
proven track records to serve time-limited appointments in Executive 
agencies to address some of the Nation's most significant challenges 
and improve existing Government efforts that would particularly benefit 
from expertise using innovative techniques and technology.
    ``(c) Administration.--The Program shall be administered by a 
Director, appointed by the Administrator under authorities of the 
General Services Administration. The Administrator shall provide 
necessary staff, resources and administrative support for the Program.
    ``(d) Appointment of Fellows.--The Director shall appoint fellows 
pursuant to the Program and, in cooperation with Executive agencies, 
shall facilitate placement of fellows to participate in projects that 
have the potential for significant positive effects and are consistent 
with the President's goals.
    ``(e) Application Process.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director shall prescribe the process 
        for applications and nominations of individuals to the Program.
            ``(2) Program standards.--Following publication of these 
        processes, the Director may accept for consideration 
        applications from individuals. The Director shall establish, 
        administer, review, and revise, if appropriate, a 
        Governmentwide cap on the number of fellows. The Director shall 
        establish and publish salary ranges, benefits, and standards 
        for the Program.
    ``(f) Selection, Appointment, and Assignment of Fellows.--
            ``(1) Procedures.--The Director shall prescribe appropriate 
        procedures for the selection, appointment, and assignment of 
        fellows.
            ``(2) Consultation.--Prior to the selection of fellows, the 
        Director shall consult with the heads of Executive agencies 
        regarding potential projects and how best to meet those needs. 
        Following such consultation, the Director shall select and 
        appoint individuals to serve as fellows.
            ``(3) Time limitation.--Fellows selected for the Program 
        shall serve under short-term, time-limited appointments. Such 
        fellows shall be appointed for no less than 6 months and no 
        longer than 2 years in the Program. The Director shall 
        facilitate the process of placing fellows at requesting 
        Executive agencies.
    ``(g) Responsibilities of Agencies.--Each Executive agency shall 
work with the Director and the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program 
advisory board established under section 3172 to attempt to maximize 
the Program's benefits to the agency and the Government, including by 
identifying initiatives that have a meaningful effect on the people 
served and that benefit from involvement by one or more fellows. Such 
agencies shall ensure that each fellow works closely with responsible 
senior officials for the duration of the assignment.
``Sec. 3172. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program advisory board
    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator of General Services shall 
continue an advisory board to advise the Director of the Presidential 
Innovation Fellows Program by recommending such priorities and 
standards as may be beneficial to fulfill the mission of the 
Presidential Innovation Fellows Program and assist in identifying 
potential projects and placements for fellows. The advisory board may 
not participate in the selection process under section 3171(f).
    ``(b) Chair; Membership.--The Administrator shall designate a 
representative to serve as the Chair of the advisory board. In addition 
to the Chair, the membership of the advisory board shall include--
            ``(1) the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of 
        Management and Budget;
            ``(2) the Director of the Office of Personnel Management;
            ``(3) the Administrator of the Office of Electronic 
        Government of the Office of Management and Budget;
            ``(4) the Assistant to the President and Chief Technology 
        Officer; and
            ``(5) other individuals as may be designated by the 
        Administrator.
    ``(c) Consultation.--The advisory board may consult with industry, 
academia, or nonprofits to ensure the Presidential Innovation Fellows 
Program is continually identifying opportunities to apply advanced 
skillsets and innovative practices in effective ways to address the 
Nation's most significant challenges.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 31 of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

         ``subchapter v--presidential innovation fellows program

``3171. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program.
``3172. Presidential Innovation Fellows Program advisory board.''.
    (c) Transition.--The Presidential Innovation Fellows Program 
established pursuant to Executive Order 13704 (5 U.S.C. 3301 note) as 
in existence on the day before the date of enactment of this Act shall 
be considered the Presidential Innovation Fellows Program described 
under this section.
    (d) No Additional Funds Authorized.--No additional funds are 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act or the amendments 
made by this Act. This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall be 
carried out using amounts otherwise authorized.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 12, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
