[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5975 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5975

  To amend title 18, United States Code, to provide mandatory minimum 
 terms of imprisonment for certain trafficking offenses, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 8, 2016

Mr. Walker (for himself, Mr. Weber of Texas, and Mrs. Ellmers of North 
  Carolina) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title 18, United States Code, to provide mandatory minimum 
 terms of imprisonment for certain trafficking offenses, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Bettering Resources in Guarding from 
Human Trafficking Act of 2016'' or the ``BRIGHT Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. MANDATORY MINIMUMS FOR CERTAIN TRAFFICKING OFFENSES.

    (a) Peonage.--Section 1581(a) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``or imprisoned not 
        more than 20 years, or both'' and inserting ``and imprisoned 
        for not less than five years and not more than 20 years''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``or imprisoned for 
        any term of years or life, or both'' and inserting ``and 
        imprisoned for not less than five years''.
    (b) Vessels for Slave Trade.--Section 1582 of title 18, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``or imprisoned not more than seven 
years, or both'' and inserting ``and imprisoned for not less than five 
years and not more than seven years''.
    (c) Enticement Into Slavery.--Section 1583 of title 18, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``, imprisoned not more 
        than 20 years, or both'' and inserting ``and imprisoned for not 
        less than five years and not more than 20 years''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``, imprisoned for any 
        term of years or for life, or both'' and inserting ``and 
        imprisoned for not less than five years''.
    (d) Sale Into Involuntary Servitude.--Section 1584(a) of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``or imprisoned not 
        more than 20 years, or both'' and inserting ``and imprisoned 
        for not less than five years and not more than 20 years''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``or imprisoned for 
        any term or years or life, or both'' and inserting ``and 
        imprisoned for not less than five years''.
    (e) Seizure, Detention, Transportation or Sale of Slaves.--Section 
1585 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or 
imprisoned not more than seven years, or both'' and inserting ``and 
imprisoned for not less than five years and not more than seven 
years''.
    (f) Service on Vessels in Slave Trade.--Section 1586 of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``or imprisoned not more 
than two years, or both'' and inserting ``and imprisoned for not less 
than one year and not more than two years''.
    (g) Possession of Slaves Aboard Vessel.--Section 1587 of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``or imprisoned not more 
than four years, or both'' and inserting ``and imprisoned for not less 
than one year and not more than four years''.
    (h) Transportation of Slaves From United States.--Section 1588 of 
title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or imprisoned 
not more than 10 years, or both'' and inserting ``and imprisoned for 
not less than five years and not more than 10 years''.
    (i) Forced Labor.--Section 1589(d) of title 18, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``, imprisoned not 
        more than 20 years, or both'' and inserting ``and imprisoned 
        for not less than five years and not more than 20 years''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``, imprisoned for 
        any term of years or life, or both'' and inserting ``and 
        imprisoned for not less than five years''.
    (j) Trafficking With Respect to Peonage, Slavery, Involuntary 
Servitude, or Forced Labor.--Section 1590(a) of title 18, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``or imprisoned not 
        more than 20 years, or both'' and inserting ``and imprisoned 
        for not less than five years and not more than 20 years''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``or imprisoned for 
        any term of years or life, or both'' and inserting ``and 
        imprisoned for not less than 5 years''.
    (k) Unlawful Conduct With Respect to Documents in Furtherance of 
Trafficking, Peonage, Slavery, Involuntary Servitude, or Forced 
Labor.--Section 1592(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(a) Whoever knowingly destroys, conceals, removes, confiscates, 
or possesses any actual or purported passport or other immigration 
document, or any other actual or purported government identification 
document, of another person--
            ``(1)(A) in the course of a violation of section 1581, 
        1583, 1584, 1589, 1590, or 1594(a);
            ``(B) with intent to violate section 1581, 1583, 1584, 
        1589, or 1590; or
            ``(C) to prevent or restrict or to attempt to prevent or 
        restrict, without lawful authority, the person's liberty to 
        move or travel, in order to maintain the labor or services of 
        that person, when the person is or has been a victim of a 
        severe form of trafficking in persons, as defined in section 
        103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000,
shall be fined under this title and imprisoned for not less than one 
year and not more than five years; or
            ``(2) in the course of a violation of section 1591, or with 
        intent to violate such section, shall be fined under this title 
        and imprisoned for not less than 5 years and not more than 10 
        years.''.
                                 <all>
