[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1324 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  Union Calendar No. 59
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1324

                          [Report No. 114-80]

 To adjust the boundary of the Arapaho National Forest, Colorado, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 4, 2015

  Mr. Polis introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

                             April 15, 2015

     Additional sponsors: Mr. Tipton, Mr. DeSaulnier, Mr. Smith of 
 Washington, Ms. Judy Chu of California, Mr. Beyer, Mrs. Lawrence, Mr. 
                Yarmuth, and Mr. Ted Lieu of California

                             April 15, 2015

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To adjust the boundary of the Arapaho National Forest, Colorado, and 
                          for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Arapaho National Forest Boundary 
Adjustment Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. ARAPAHO NATIONAL FOREST BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Arapaho National Forest in the 
State of Colorado is adjusted to incorporate the approximately 92.95 
acres of land generally depicted as ``The Wedge'' on the map entitled 
``Arapaho National Forest Boundary Adjustment'' and dated November 6, 
2013, and described as lots three, four, eight, and nine of section 13, 
Township 4 North, Range 76 West, Sixth Principal Meridian, Colorado. A 
lot described in this subsection may be included in the boundary 
adjustment only after the Secretary of Agriculture obtains written 
permission for such action from the lot owner or owners.
    (b) Bowen Gulch Protection Area.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall include all Federal land within the boundary described in 
subsection (a) in the Bowen Gulch Protection Area established under 
section 6 of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 539j).
    (c) Land and Water Conservation Fund.--For purposes of section 
200306(a)(2)(B)(i) of title 54, United States Code, the boundaries of 
the Arapaho National Forest, as modified under subsection (a), shall be 
considered to be the boundaries of the Arapaho National Forest as in 
existence on January 1, 1965.
    (d) Public Motorized Use.--Nothing in this Act opens privately 
owned lands within the boundary described in subsection (a) to public 
motorized use.
    (e) Access to Non-Federal Lands.--Notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 6(f) of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 539j(f)) 
regarding motorized travel, the owners of any non-Federal lands within 
the boundary described in subsection (a) who historically have accessed 
their lands through lands now or hereafter owned by the United States 
within the boundary described in subsection (a) shall have the 
continued right of motorized access to their lands across the existing 
roadway.
                                                  Union Calendar No. 59

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1324

                          [Report No. 114-80]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To adjust the boundary of the Arapaho National Forest, Colorado, and 
                          for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 15, 2015

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
