[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1100 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1100

 To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against 
income tax for amounts paid by a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces 
   for a new State license or certification required by reason of a 
 permanent change in the duty station of such member to another State.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 26, 2015

 Mr. Cartwright (for himself, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Loebsack, 
  Mr. Jones, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Vargas, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. 
   Doggett, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Pingree, Mr. Himes, Mr. 
Carney, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Pallone, Mr. 
  Farenthold, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Heck of Washington, Ms. 
 Esty, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. Honda, Ms. Norton, Mr. 
Foster, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Cole, Mr. Wittman, 
Ms. Moore, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. LaMalfa, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. 
    Lance, Mr. Jolly, Ms. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Ms. 
DelBene, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Knight, Mr. 
  Cook, Mr. Hastings, Ms. Brown of Florida, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Payne, Mr. 
Gibson, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Sessions, Mrs. Capps, Mr. 
 Brooks of Alabama, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. Kaptur, Mr. Rush, Mr. Forbes, Mr. 
 Beyer, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Farr, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Takano, Mr. 
Courtney, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Mr. McGovern, Mr. Ellison, Ms. Titus, 
 Mr. Hanna, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Mr. Takai, Mr. 
Hurt of Virginia, Mr. Joyce, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
 Rice of South Carolina, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Israel, Mr. 
Connolly, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Keating, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Ms. Bordallo, 
  Ms. Sinema, Mr. Sires, Ms. Speier, Mr. Posey, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. 
McDermott, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Ruiz, Mr. Barr, and Mr. Stivers) introduced 
  the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Ways and 
                                 Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against 
income tax for amounts paid by a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces 
   for a new State license or certification required by reason of a 
 permanent change in the duty station of such member to another State.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Military Spouse Job Continuity Act 
of 2015''.

SEC. 2. CREDIT FOR STATE LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION COSTS OF MILITARY 
              SPOUSES ARISING BY REASON OF A PERMANENT CHANGE IN THE 
              DUTY STATION OF THE MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES TO ANOTHER 
              STATE.

    (a) In General.--Subpart B of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after 
section 30D the following new section:

``SEC. 30E. STATE LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION COSTS OF MILITARY SPOUSE 
              ARISING FROM TRANSFER OF MEMBER OF ARMED FORCES TO 
              ANOTHER STATE.

    ``(a) In General.--In the case of an eligible individual, there 
shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter 
for the taxable year an amount equal to the qualified relicensing costs 
of such individual which are paid or incurred by the taxpayer during 
the taxable year.
    ``(b) Maximum Credit.--The credit allowed by this section with 
respect to each change of duty station shall not exceed $500.
    ``(c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Eligible individual.--The term `eligible individual' 
        means any individual--
                    ``(A) who is married to a member of the Armed 
                Forces of the United States at the time that the member 
                moves to another State under a permanent change of 
                station order, and
                    ``(B) who moves to such other State with such 
                member.
            ``(2) Qualified relicensing costs.--The term `qualified 
        relicensing costs' means costs--
                    ``(A) which are for a license or certification 
                required by the State referred to in paragraph (1) to 
                engage in the profession that such individual engaged 
                in while within the State from which the individual 
                moved, and
                    ``(B) which are paid or incurred during the period 
                beginning on the date that the orders referred to in 
                paragraph (1)(A) are issued and ending on the date 
                which is 1 year after the reporting date specified in 
                such orders.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for such subpart A 
is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 30D the 
following new item:

``Sec. 30E. State licensure and certification costs of military spouse 
                            arising from transfer of member of Armed 
                            Forces to another State.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014.
                                 <all>
