[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3280 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3280

 To amend the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to require one-
stop delivery systems under such Act to offer services through Internet 
websites and to direct the Secretary of Labor to develop standards and 
       best practices for such websites, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 29, 2015

Mr. Swalwell of California (for himself, Mr. Hudson, and Ms. Stefanik) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                      Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to require one-
stop delivery systems under such Act to offer services through Internet 
websites and to direct the Secretary of Labor to develop standards and 
       best practices for such websites, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Widening Internet Readiness for 
Employment Development Act'' or the ``WIRED Act''.

SEC. 2. ONLINE PROVISION OF ONE-STOP SERVICES.

    (a) Online Provision of One-Stop Services.--Subparagraph (D) of 
section 121(e)(2) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
U.S.C. 3151(e)(2)(D)) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(D) as applicable and practicable, shall make 
                programs, services, and activities accessible to 
                individuals through an Internet website that--
                            ``(i) is unique to the particular one-stop 
                        delivery system; and
                            ``(ii) meets the standards and incorporates 
                        the best practices established by the Secretary 
                        of Labor under subsection (j).''.
    (b) Standards and Best Practices for Online Provision of Services 
by One-Stop Delivery Systems.--Section 121 of the Workforce Innovation 
and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3951) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(j) Standards and Best Practices for Online Provision of 
Services.--After soliciting public comments and consulting with and 
receiving input from relevant parties, including State workforce 
development boards, the Secretary of Labor shall establish and maintain 
standards and best practices for Internet websites maintained by one-
stop delivery systems under subsection (e)(2)(D), and for the provision 
of services through such websites. Such standards and best practices 
shall include--
            ``(1) a requirement for user-friendly, up-to-date websites 
        available to all dislocated workers;
            ``(2) a requirement that such websites prominently display 
        the address and hours of operation of all physical one-stop 
        centers in the local area, and a description of services 
        provided in and events held at each such center;
            ``(3) best practices for providing, through such websites, 
        services such as resume assistance, cover letter review, job 
        searching, interview preparations, and online employment-
        related practice tests, through videos, video-conferencing, or 
        other means;
            ``(4) best practices for assuring a secure network and the 
        protection of any personal information;
            ``(5) best practices for incorporating social media and 
        networking capabilities into such websites; and
            ``(6) best practices for making such websites accessible by 
        mobile devices to the extent practicable.''.
    (c) Deadline.--The Secretary shall establish the initial standards 
and best practices required by section 121(j) of the Workforce 
Innovation and Opportunity Act (as added by subsection (b)) not later 
than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
