[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5047 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 637
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5047

                          [Report No. 114-813]

To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Labor 
  to provide information to veterans and members of the Armed Forces 
about articulation agreements between institutions of higher learning, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 25, 2016

 Mr. Jody B. Hice of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Takano, Mr. Cramer, and 
 Mrs. Radewagen) introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                   the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

                           November 14, 2016

  Additional sponsors: Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Jones, Mr. 
Rice of South Carolina, Mr. Young of Iowa, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. 
 Newhouse, Mr. Wittman, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Gosar, Mr. 
  Chabot, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Ms. Stefanik, Mr. Webster of 
Florida, Mr. Ross, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Blum, and 
                              Mr. Poliquin

                           November 14, 2016

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Labor 
  to provide information to veterans and members of the Armed Forces 
about articulation agreements between institutions of higher learning, 
                        and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting Veterans' Educational 
Choice Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS PROVISION OF INFORMATION ON 
              ARTICULATION AGREEMENTS BETWEEN INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER 
              LEARNING.

    (a) Information.--Department of Veterans Affairs counselors who 
provide educational or vocational counseling services pursuant to 
section 3697A of title 38, United States Code, shall provide to any 
eligible individual who requests such counseling services information 
about the articulation agreements of each institution of higher 
learning in which the veteran is interested.
    (b) Certification of Eligibility.--When the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs provides to a veteran a certification of eligibility for 
educational assistance provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
the Secretary shall also include detailed information on such 
educational assistance, including information on requesting education 
counseling services and on articulation agreements.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``institution of higher learning'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 3452(f) of title 38, United 
        States Code.
            (2) The term ``articulation agreement'' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 486A of the Higher Education Act of 
        1965 (Public Law 89-329; 20 U.S.C. 1093a).
    (d) Deadline for Implementation.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall implement this section not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 637

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5047

                          [Report No. 114-813]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Labor 
  to provide information to veterans and members of the Armed Forces 
about articulation agreements between institutions of higher learning, 
                        and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           November 14, 2016

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
