[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1826 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1826

To reauthorize the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management 
                      Act, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 15, 2015

Mr. Sablan (for himself and Mr. Huffman) introduced the following bill; 
        which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To reauthorize the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management 
                      Act, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fishing Economy Improvement Act''.

SEC. 2. REFERENCES.

    Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this Act an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a 
provision of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.).

SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS TO DEFINITIONS.

    Section 3 (16 U.S.C. 1802) is amended--
            (1) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(1a) The term `artisanal fishing' means subsistence or 
        small scale traditional fishing involving fishing households 
        (as opposed to commercial companies)--
                    ``(A) using a relatively small amount of capital 
                and energy and relatively small fishing vessels (if 
                any);
                    ``(B) making short fishing trips, close to shore; 
                and
                    ``(C) mainly for local consumption.'';
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (27) the following:
            ``(27a) The term `marine aquaculture' means the propagation 
        and rearing of aquatic species in controlled or selected 
        environments in the exclusive economic zone.''; and
            (3) in paragraph (16), by adding at the end the following: 
        ``Such term does not include marine aquaculture.''.

SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES.

    (a) Participation for United States Territories.--Section 102 (16 
U.S.C. 1812) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) United States Territories.--The Secretary shall ensure 
participation for, and consider the interests of, United States 
territories and their fishing communities in managing highly migratory 
species that frequent the exclusive economic zone adjoining such 
territories.''.
    (b) Appointments to Commission for the Conservation and Management 
of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific 
Ocean.--Section 503 of the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries 
Convention Implementation Act (16 U.S.C. 6902) is amended by striking 
subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) United States Commissioners.--
            ``(1) In general.--The United States shall be represented 
        on the Commission by 5 United States Commissioners. The 
        President shall appoint individuals to serve on the Commission 
        at the pleasure of the President. In making the appointments, 
        the President shall select Commissioners from among individuals 
        who are knowledgeable or experienced concerning highly 
        migratory fish stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean.
            ``(2) Required appointments.--Of the Commissioners 
        appointed under paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) one shall be an officer or employee of the 
                Department of Commerce;
                    ``(B) one shall be the chairman or another member 
                of the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council;
                    ``(C) one shall be the chairman or another member 
                of the Pacific Fishery Management Council; and
                    ``(D) one shall be a resident of American Samoa, 
                Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                Islands who is not a member of the Western Pacific 
                Fishery Management Council.
            ``(3) Terms.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term of a Commissioner shall 
                be 3 years.
                    ``(B) Council appointees.--A Commissioner who is 
                appointed as a member of the Pacific Fishery Management 
                Council or Western Pacific Fishery Management Council 
                and whose term on that Council ends during his or her 
                term as Commissioner may complete the current term as 
                Commissioner but shall not be eligible for 
                reappointment.
                    ``(C) Limit on consecutive terms.--An individual 
                appointed under paragraph (1) shall not be eligible to 
                serve more than 2 consecutive terms as a Commissioner.
                    ``(D) Rotation of territorial appointments.--
                Appointments under paragraph (2)(D) shall be rotated 
                among residents of American Samoa, Guam, and the 
                Northern Mariana Islands to ensure equal representation 
                of such territories.
            ``(4) Chairman.--The United States Commissioners may adopt 
        such rules of procedure as they find necessary and to select a 
        chairman from among such Commissioners who are officers or 
        employees of the United States Government.''.
    (c) Use of Western Pacific Sustainable Fisheries Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Section 204(e)(7) (16 U.S.C. 1824(e)(7)) 
        is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``except as 
                provided in subparagraph (D),'' after ``(A)'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by inserting ``except as provided in 
                        subparagraph (D),'' after ``(B)''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``and'' after the 
                        semicolon at the end;
                    (C) in subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) by inserting ``except as provided in 
                        subparagraph (D),'' after ``(C)''; and
                            (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
                        inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) in the case of funds that are attributable to 
                a particular U.S. Participating Territory under section 
                113 of division B of Public Law 112-55 (125 Stat. 603) 
                and any regulation approving or otherwise giving effect 
                to such agreement, or any subsequent agreement, the 
                Treasury of the U.S. Participating Territory to which 
                those funds are attributed under this Act.''.
            (2) Catch limit arrangement funding.--Section 113(b) of 
        division B of Public Law 112-55 (125 Stat. 603) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Western Pacific Regional 
                Fisheries Management Council'' and inserting 
                ``Secretary'';
                    (B) by adding ``and'' after the semicolon at the 
                end of paragraph (1);
                    (C) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``use'' and inserting 
                        ``transfer'';
                            (ii) by striking ``only''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
                        ``or for such other purposes as the government 
                        of the U.S. Participating Territory 
                        determines.''; and
                    (D) by striking paragraph (3).

SEC. 5. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO REGIONAL FISHERY MANAGEMENT COUNCILS.

    (a) Amendments.--Section 302 (16 U.S.C. 1852) is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``18'' and inserting 
                        ``19''; and
                            (ii) by inserting before the period at the 
                        end the following: ``and one appointed by the 
                        Secretary who is a member of the Mid-Atlantic 
                        Fishery Management Council nominated by the 
                        members of such Council to represent the 
                        interests of participants in fisheries under 
                        the jurisdiction of such Council''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``21'' and inserting 
                        ``22''; and
                            (ii) by inserting before the period at the 
                        end the following: ``and one appointed by the 
                        Secretary who is a member of the New England 
                        Fishery Management Council nominated by the 
                        members of such Council to represent the 
                        interests of participants in fisheries under 
                        the jurisdiction of such Council''.
            (2) In subsection (a)(2), by adding at the end the 
        following: ``Each Council shall reflect the interests of any 
        Indian tribes, Alaskan Natives, Pacific Insular Areas, and 
        other individuals engaged in artisanal fishing within the 
        Council's jurisdiction.''.
            (3) In subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or 
                recreational'' and inserting ``, recreational, or 
                artisanal fishing''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), in the second sentence, by 
                inserting ``, and in the case of the Governor of Alaska 
                with the artisanal fishing interests of the State,'' 
                after ``interests of the State''.
            (4) In subsection (b)(2)(B), by striking ``and 
        recreational'' and inserting ``, recreational, and artisanal''.
            (5) In subsection (e), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) To the extent possible, each Council shall minimize 
        the amount and cost of member and staff travel by use of 
        electronic means for remote participation during meetings, 
        including for voting.''.
    (b) Report on Western Pacific Fishery Management Council.--The 
Comptroller General of the United States shall within 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act investigate and report to the 
Congress on the operations of the Western Pacific Fishery Management 
Council. Such investigation and report shall include--
            (1) a full accounting of all grant money received and 
        distributed by the Council for the 10 years preceding the 
        enactment of this Act, including an analysis of the 
        deliverables and results of all grant-funded projects; and
            (2) the involvement of Council staff in the preparation and 
        submission of the 2012 petition to remove protections for the 
        green sea turtle under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
        U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).

SEC. 6. TRANSPARENCY AND PUBLIC PROCESS.

    (a) Advice.--Section 302(g)(1)(B) (16 U.S.C. 1852(g)(1)(B)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: ``Each scientific and 
statistical committee shall develop such advice in a transparent manner 
and allow for public involvement in the process.''.
    (b) Meetings.--Section 302(i)(2) (16 U.S.C. 1852(i)(2)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) Each Council shall make available on the 
                Internet website of the Council--
                            ``(i) to the extent practicable, a Web cast 
                        or a live audio or video broadcast of each 
                        meeting of the Council, and of the Council 
                        Coordination Committee established under 
                        subsection (l), that is not closed in 
                        accordance with paragraph (3); and
                            ``(ii) an audio or video recording (if the 
                        meeting was in person or by video conference), 
                        or a searchable audio recording or written 
                        transcript, of each meeting of the Council and 
                        of the meetings of committees referred to in 
                        section 302(g)(1)(B) of the Council, by not 
                        later than 30 days after the conclusion of the 
                        meeting.
                    ``(H) The Secretary shall maintain and make 
                available to the public an archive of Council and 
                scientific and statistical committee meeting audios, 
                videos, and transcripts made available under clauses 
                (i) and (ii) subparagraph (G).''.

SEC. 7. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO FISHERY MANAGEMENT PLANS.

    (a) Inclusion of Artisanal Fishing Sectors.--Section 303(a)(13) (16 
U.S.C. 1853(a)(13)) is amended by inserting ``artisanal,'' after 
``include a description of the commercial, recreational,''.
    (b) State Dungeness Crab Management Authority.--Section 203 of 
Public Law 105-384 (16 U.S.C. 1856 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (i); and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (i).

SEC. 8. IMPROVING FISHERIES DATA COLLECTION.

    (a) Electronic Monitoring.--
            (1) Issuance of guidance.--
                    (A) Requirement.--The Secretary of Commerce shall 
                issue guidance regarding the use of electronic 
                monitoring for the purposes of monitoring fisheries 
                that are subject to the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
                Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et 
                seq.).
                    (B) Content.--The guidance shall--
                            (i) distinguish between monitoring for data 
                        collection and research purposes and monitoring 
                        for compliance and enforcement purposes; and
                            (ii) include minimum criteria, objectives, 
                        or performance standards for electronic 
                        monitoring.
                    (C) Process.--In issuing the guidance the Secretary 
                shall--
                            (i) consult with the Regional Fishery 
                        Management Councils and interstate fishery 
                        management commissions;
                            (ii) publish the proposed guidance; and
                            (iii) provide an opportunity for the 
                        submission by the public of comments on the 
                        proposed guidance.
            (2) Implementation of monitoring.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), and 
                after the issuance of the final guidance, a Council, or 
                the Secretary for fisheries referred to in section 
                302(a)(3) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation 
                and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(a)(3)), may, in 
                accordance with the guidance, on a fishery-by-fishery 
                basis and consistent with the existing objectives and 
                management goals of a fishery management plan and the 
                Act for a fishery issued by the Council or the 
                Secretary, respectively, amend such plan--
                            (i) to incorporate electronic monitoring as 
                        an alternative tool for data collection and 
                        monitoring purposes or for compliance and 
                        enforcement purposes (or both); and
                            (ii) to allow for the replacement of a 
                        percentage of on-board observers with 
                        electronic monitoring.
                    (B) Comparability.--Subparagraph (A) shall apply to 
                a fishery only if the Council or Secretary, 
                respectively, determines that such monitoring will 
                yield comparable data collection and compliance 
                results.
            (3) Pilot projects.--Before the issuance of final guidance, 
        a Council, or the Secretary for fisheries referred to in 
        section 302(a)(3) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation 
        and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(a)(3)), may, subject to the 
        requirements of such Act, on a fishery-by-fishery basis, and 
        consistent with the existing objectives and management goals of 
        a fishery management plan for a fishery issued by the Council 
        or the Secretary, respectively, conduct a pilot project for the 
        use of electronic monitoring for the fishery.
            (4) Deadline.--The Secretary shall issue final guidance 
        under this subsection by not later than 12 months after the 
        date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Video and Acoustic Survey Technologies.--The Secretary shall 
work with the Regional Fishery Management Councils and nongovernmental 
entities to develop and implement the use pursuant to the Magnuson-
Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et 
seq.) of video survey technologies and expanded use of acoustic survey 
technologies.

SEC. 9. COOPERATIVE RESEARCH AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Plan.--Section 318 (16 U.S.C. 1867) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``(1)'' before the 
        first sentence, and by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) Within one year after the date of enactment of the Fishing 
Economy Improvement Act, and after consultation with the Councils, the 
Secretary shall publish a plan for implementing and conducting the 
program established in paragraph (1). Such plan shall identify and 
describe critical regional fishery management and research needs, 
including for data-poor stocks for which limited scientific or 
commercial information is available, possible projects that may address 
those needs, and estimated costs for such projects. The plan shall be 
revised and updated every 5 years, and updated plans shall include a 
brief description of projects that were funded in the prior 5-year 
period and the research and management needs that were addressed by 
those projects.'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``in consultation with 
        the Secretary.'' and inserting ``. Each Council shall provide a 
        list of such needs to the Secretary on an annual basis, 
        identifying and prioritizing such needs.'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``Funding'' and 
                inserting ``Priorities''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking all after 
                ``including'' and inserting an em dash, followed on the 
                next line by the following:
                    ``(A) the use of fishing vessels or acoustic or 
                other marine technology;
                    ``(B) expanding the use of electronic catch 
                reporting programs and technology; and
                    ``(C) improving monitoring and observer coverage 
                through the expanded use of electronic monitoring 
                devices and satellite tracking systems such as vessel 
                monitoring systems (VMS) on small vessels.''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Acceptance of Funding.--The Secretary may, using the 
authority established under section 208 of Public Law 109-479 (16 
U.S.C. 1891b), accept and use funding from other Federal agencies, 
academic institutions, persons, including fishery participants, and 
nongovernmental organizations to expand cooperative fisheries research 
and management efforts, including efforts to improve data collection in 
recreational fisheries, for the purposes of improving management 
certainty and outcomes.''.
    (b) Allocation Exception.--
            (1) In general.--Section 208 of the Magnuson-Stevens 
        Fishery Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act of 2006 
        (16 U.S.C. 1891b) is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by inserting ``zeke 
                grader'' before ``fisheries conservation and management 
                fund'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), by inserting ``Zeke Grader'' 
                before ``Fisheries Conservation and Management Fund'';
                    (C) in subsection (c), by striking `` Fishery 
                Conservation and Management Fund'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``Zeke Grader Fisheries 
                Conservation and Management Fund''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Allocation Exception.--Notwithstanding subsection (d), the 
Secretary may apportion monies from the Fund to a specific project or 
region if such monies were identified by the Council that designated 
them for inclusion in the Fund under subsection (c)(1), or by the 
appropriation Act, State, public source, or nonprofit or organization 
from which received under subsection (c)(2), as being deposited for 
that specific project or region.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents is amended 
        by striking the item relating to section 208 and inserting the 
        following:

``Sec. 208. Zeke Grader Fisheries Conservation and Management Fund.''.
            (3) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        ``Fisheries Conservation and Management Fund'' is deemed to be 
        a reference to the ``Zeke Grader Fisheries Conservation and 
        Management Fund''.

SEC. 10. GULF OF MEXICO FISHERIES COOPERATIVE RESEARCH AND RED SNAPPER 
              MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Reporting and Data Collection Program.--The Secretary of 
Commerce shall--
            (1) in conjunction with the States, the Gulf of Mexico 
        Fishery Management Council, and the recreational fishing 
        sectors, develop and implement a real-time reporting and data 
        collection program for the Gulf of Mexico red snapper fishery 
        using available technology; and
            (2) make implementation of this subsection a priority for 
        funds received by the Secretary and allocated to the Gulf of 
        Mexico region under section 2 of the Act of August 11, 1939 
        (commonly known as the ``Saltonstall-Kennedy Act'') (15 U.S.C. 
        713c-3).
    (b) Stock Surveys and Stock Assessments.--The Secretary of 
Commerce, acting through the National Marine Fisheries Service Regional 
Administrator of the Southeast Regional Office, shall for purposes of 
the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 
1801 et seq.)--
            (1) develop a schedule of stock surveys and stock 
        assessments for the Gulf of Mexico Region and the South 
        Atlantic Region for the 5-year period beginning on the date of 
        the enactment of this Act and for every 5-year period 
        thereafter;
            (2) direct the Southeast Science Center Director to 
        implement such schedule; and
            (3) in such development and implementation--
                    (A) give priority to those stocks that are 
                commercially or recreationally important; and
                    (B) ensure that each such important stock is 
                surveyed at least every 5 years.
    (c) Use of Fisheries Information in Stock Assessments.--The 
Southeast Science Center Director shall ensure that fisheries 
information made available through fisheries programs funded under 
Public Law 112-141 is incorporated as soon as possible into any 
fisheries stock assessments conducted after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.

SEC. 11. RECREATIONAL FISHING DATA.

    (a) Recreational Data Collection.--Section 401(g) (16 U.S.C. 
1881(g)) is amended by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5), 
and by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) Federal-state partnerships.--
                    ``(A) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish 
                partnerships with States to develop best practices for 
                implementation of State programs that are exempted 
                under paragraph (2).
                    ``(B) Guidance.--The Secretary shall develop 
                guidance, in cooperation with the States, that details 
                best practices for administering State programs that 
                are exempted under paragraph (2), and provide such 
                guidance to the States.
                    ``(C) Biennial report.--The Secretary shall submit 
                to the Congress and publish biennial reports that 
                include--
                            ``(i) the estimated accuracy of the 
                        registry program established under paragraph 
                        (1) and of State programs that are exempted 
                        under paragraph (2);
                            ``(ii) priorities for improving 
                        recreational fishing data collection; and
                            ``(iii) an explanation of any use of 
                        information collected by such State programs 
                        and by the Secretary, including a description 
                        of any consideration given to the information 
                        by the Secretary.
                    ``(D) State grant program.--The Secretary shall 
                make grants to States to improve implementation of 
                State programs consistent with this subsection. The 
                Secretary shall prioritize such grants based on the 
                ability of the grant to improve the quality and 
                accuracy of such programs.''.
    (b) Study of Recreational Fisheries Data.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall 
        enter into an agreement with the National Research Council of 
        the National Academy of Sciences to study the implementation of 
        the programs described in section 401 of the Magnuson-Stevens 
        Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1881). The 
        study shall--
                    (A) provide an updated assessment of recreational 
                survey methods established or improved since the 
                publication of the Council's report entitled ``Review 
                of Recreational Fisheries Survey Methods (2006)'';
                    (B) evaluate the extent to which the 
                recommendations made in that report were implemented 
                pursuant to subsection (g)(3)(B) of that section; and
                    (C) examine any limitations of the Marine 
                Recreational Fishery Statistics Survey and the marine 
                recreational information program established under 
                subsection (g)(3)(A) of that section.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 1 year after entering into an 
        agreement under paragraph (1) the Secretary shall submit a 
        report to Congress on the results of the study under paragraph 
        (1).

SEC. 12. MARINE AQUACULTURE.

    (a) Regulatory Framework.--Within 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with 
the Secretaries of the Army, the Interior, and Health and Human 
Services, and with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency, shall submit a report to Congress detailing a comprehensive 
framework for permitting and regulating marine aquaculture operations.
    (b) Funding.--The report under subsection (a) shall include 
recommendations for making any regulatory program self-sustaining 
without additional appropriations.
    (c) Limitation on Adverse Effects.--The report shall include 
detailed recommendations for how to ensure that marine aquaculture 
operations do not have any adverse effect on fisheries or fisheries 
ecosystems, including on water quality, habitat, forage, genetic 
diversity, and resiliency.

SEC. 13. SHORESIDE COMMERCIAL FISHING SUPPORT GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Title III (16 U.S.C. 1851 et seq.) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 321. SHORESIDE COMMERCIAL FISHING SUPPORT GRANTS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may make competitive grants to 
persons eligible under subsection (b) to support, pursuant to the 
national standard set forth in section 301(8), programs that address 
needs of fishing communities by--
            ``(1) providing health promotion and disease prevention 
        services, including--
                    ``(A) preventive health services and assessments;
                    ``(B) mental health services and assessments;
                    ``(C) substance abuse prevention, treatment, 
                rehabilitation, and education; or
                    ``(D) immunization services;
            ``(2) providing financial planning education and other 
        services to improve the financial stability of families and 
        small businesses, including regarding budgeting, forecasting, 
        retirement planning, college financing, or estate planning;
            ``(3) supporting positive community response to tragedies 
        at sea; or
            ``(4) workforce development training, including--
                    ``(A) community health worker training for fishing 
                community members;
                    ``(B) apprentice programs to train inexperienced 
                fishermen participating in sustainable fisheries; and
                    ``(C) volunteer oil handling classes taught by an 
                experienced commercial vessel operator.
    ``(b) Eligible Persons.--Any municipality, port authority, other 
appropriate public entity, not-for-profit organization, or other 
qualified person, that provides shoreside commercial fishing support 
shall be eligible for a grant under this section.
    ``(c) Survey of Needs.--The Secretary shall conduct demographic 
surveys of commercial fishermen and their family members to identify 
needs of fishing communities that can be addressed by grants authorized 
by this section.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--For grants under this 
section there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary 
$8,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2025.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in the first section 
is amended by adding at the end the following:

``Sec. 321. Shoreside commercial fishing support grants.''.''.

SEC. 14. SALTONSTALL-KENNEDY ACT REFORM.

    Section 2(b) of the Act of August 11, 1939 (commonly known as the 
``Saltonstall-Kennedy Act'') (15 U.S.C. 713c-3(b)), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(1)'';
            (2) by striking ``and ending on June 30, 1957,'';
            (3) by striking ``moneys'' the first place it appears and 
        inserting ``monies''; and
            (4) by striking ``shall be maintained in a separate fund 
        only for'' and all that follows and inserting ``and shall only 
        be used for the purposes described under subsection (c).''.

SEC. 15. FISHERIES DISASTER DECLARATIONS.

    (a) Treatment of California Proclamation and Executive Order.--The 
Proclamation of State Emergency and associated Executive Order issued 
by Governor Edmund G. Brown, Jr. on January 17, 2014, shall be 
considered a request by the Governor for the Secretary of Commerce to 
use the Secretary's authorities under section 312(a) of the Magnuson-
Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1861a(a)) to 
determine that a fishery resource disaster exists for fisheries that 
originate within the Central Valley Project service area.
    (b) Deadline for Determination.--
            (1) In general.--Section 312(a) (16 U.S.C. 1861a(a)) is 
        amended by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as 
        paragraphs (3) through (5), and by inserting after paragraph 
        (1) the following:
            ``(2) The Secretary shall make a determination regarding a 
        request from a Governor under paragraph (1) within 90 days 
        after receiving the request.''.
            (2) Application with respect to california proclamation and 
        executive order .--Paragraph (2) of such section, as inserted 
        by the amendment made by paragraph (1) of this subsection, 
        shall be applied with respect to the proclamation and Executive 
        Order referred to in paragraph (1) by substituting the date of 
        the enactment of this Act for ``receiving the request''.

SEC. 16. FISHERIES DATA COLLECTION AND STORAGE MODERNIZATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Commerce shall seek to enter into 
an agreement with the United States Digital Service within 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, under which the Service 
shall make recommendations to modernize and streamline the fishery data 
collection, processing, analysis, and storage systems of the National 
Marine Fisheries Service.
    (b) Access to Data Systems.--Under the agreement, the Secretary 
shall provide the United States Digital Service with access to all data 
collection, processing, analysis, and storage systems of the National 
Marine Fisheries Service and any other information necessary to enable 
the development of recommendations that will ensure the optimization 
and modernization of such systems.
    (c) Implementation of Recommendations.--The Secretary shall 
implement any recommendations made by the United States Digital 
Service.

SEC. 17. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 4 (16 U.S.C. 1803) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``this Act'' and all that follows through 
        ``(7)'' and inserting ``this Act''; and
            (2) by striking ``fiscal year 2013'' and inserting ``each 
        of fiscal years 2016 through 2021''.
                                 <all>
