[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1646 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1646

To require the Secretary of Homeland Security to research how small and 
medium sized unmanned aerial systems could be used in an attack, how to 
   prevent or mitigate the effects of such an attack, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 26, 2015

   Mrs. Watson Coleman (for herself and Mr. Thompson of Mississippi) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
 Homeland Security, and in addition to the Committee on Transportation 
 and Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require the Secretary of Homeland Security to research how small and 
medium sized unmanned aerial systems could be used in an attack, how to 
   prevent or mitigate the effects of such an attack, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Homeland Security Drone Assessment 
and Analysis Act''.

SEC. 2. DRONE ASSESSMENT AND ANALYSIS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall research 
how commercially available small and medium sized unmanned aerial 
systems could be used to perpetuate an attack and, in consultation with 
the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, and the 
Secretary of Energy, develop Federal policies, guidance, and protocols 
to prevent such an attack or mitigate the effects of such an attack.
    (b) Dissemination to State and Local Officials.--The Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall disseminate information to State, local, and 
tribal law enforcement officials regarding how such officials may 
bolster preparedness for and responses to attacks perpetrated by 
commercially available small and medium sized unmanned aerial systems.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit 
to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate an assessment of the security threat associated with the 
commercial availability of small and medium sized unmanned aerial 
systems. Such assessment shall be informed by research conducted in 
accordance with subsection (a) and may be developed in coordination 
with the Centers of Excellence of the Department of Homeland Security 
and other academic institutions.
                                 <all>
